# Why most Tech IPOs end badly (and the valuation trap to avoid) - Peter Singlehurst [Baillie Gifford]

Channel: Guillaume Moubeche (personal)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2Hq6O-ugVYk
Upload date: 2026-06-18

---

Get the shareholders you deserve. I strongly believe what you know about Elon Musk is that every couple of years he will bet the house. He will put everything on black in his company. To grow the value of a company five times, you have to be in a business that's willing to take risk. And so history tells us that any narrative that says China can't do X is wrong. >> Today on billions, I'm sitting down with the man who built the most patient capital in Silicon Valley, Peter Singlehurst. He has built the private companies team from scratch at Baillie Gifford and deployed billions into more than 100 companies. His portfolio reads like a list of the most important private companies [music] on the planet. Right now, he's arguing that public markets have largely lost their monopoly on liquidity and that the biggest companies in the world may never need to IPO at all. Peter, thanks a lot for being here. >> Thanks for having me. >> I'm curious, like how does a philosopher like yourself end up in private markets? >> Oh, generous of you to call me a philosopher. Um so, uh So, I I I studied philosophy at undergraduate and I did a master's uh in philosophy. And um I sort of came within a hair's breadth of staying on and doing a PhD, but sort of swerved out at the last minute and um sort of left me wondering what I should do. I didn't really know. Um but I heard about this company called Baillie Gifford and this thing called investment management. And I thought, well, maybe that sort of sounds interesting. Um and it turns out that I was lucky enough to have stumbled across this firm that was specifically looking to hire people to be investors who sort of barely knew what investing was, who didn't have a background in finance. And the reason for that wasn't just because Baillie Gifford was trying to be obtuse and different, it's because uh they were trying to hire people who had maybe a different perspective, who hadn't been taught the same things as everybody else in finance. Um and so I I was lucky enough to get a a job within the firm. Uh, we we hire graduates every single year. Most of the time they don't have finance backgrounds. That's a a training scheme and a recruitment program that's been going for decades. Um, and most of the partners within the firm, such as myself, started on this kind of graduate training scheme, uh, right back at the start of their careers and have stayed within the firm their entire careers. So, that's kind of how I stumbled into and how I stumbled into this industry. Um, now, at that time Baillie Gifford was not doing private markets investing. Uh, we were solely a public market growth equity investor. And there was a very simple reason for that. It's that if you're doing growth equity investing, you could do that in the public markets. You didn't need to do it in the private markets cuz companies went public when they were pretty young. You know, pretty small. Amazon went public a few years after being founded in 1997. It had a market cap of 400 $50 million. And then all that growth happened in the public markets. So, BG was just doing public market investing. A few years into my time at Baillie Gifford, I was on one of our large public market growth teams and we started to see that uh, there were these really big private companies. And they were called unicorns. And they were businesses like Airbnb, Spotify. And we were like, "Hang on, this is a bit strange. Like, what's going on here?" Uh, it seems like these companies are staying private for longer. And at the same time, like, we were getting to know these companies. They were sort of approaching us and we were kind of building our understanding of them and we were thinking, "These are the kinds of businesses we've always invested in. Why haven't we invested in them yet?" And I was lucky enough to be on a a team where the senior investors were all taken up doing really important things like managing large public market portfolios. Uh, so I was given some rope to go off and uh, sort of proverbially hang myself looking at these companies. And we started to realize that there was this really profound structural change that was happening in companies staying private longer. and that it was beholden on us to be investing in these companies for our clients if we wanted to continue to give them exposure to the world's best growth stage companies. So, I was coming at the right time at the right place and at sort of ground zero of this change which has come to dominate uh private markets of companies staying for private private for longer. Um so, I kind of started doing our early sourcing of these businesses. Um I started helping to build out the infrastructure that we would need for investing in these companies. I founded the dedicated team uh in 2017. We launched our first fund in 2019. We we really wanted to make sure we were good at doing this before we created dedicated funds around it. Um since then, we've launched three funds. We've continued to scale up the team. We've been fortunate enough to find some really amazing companies, many of which are well-known, such as the ones that you mentioned, the SpaceX's, uh you know, ByteDance's of this world, but we find some lesser-known as well. But, really, we're just trying to create these portfolios of the world's best growth stage companies, which is which is consistent with what we've done as an organization for for over 100 years. It's just today, if you want to do growth equity investing, you've got to do it in the private markets and the public markets. >> So, now I'm curious to understand cuz by trade you started focusing, as you said, on public markets. Now you're getting like in earlier stage in private. So, you're getting potentially like uh higher upside, but also like uh potentially higher risk. So, how do you balance like the the two in term of the of the portfolio like and the global AUM that you that you have? >> Yeah, so the slight point in your question that I would push back on is this notion that we're doing earlier stage companies. We're doing companies at the same stage that we've always done. >> Okay. >> Uh it's just that they're staying private [clears throat] staying private rather than going public. Um I look let let me let me bring it to life with an example. So, uh we were we were fortunate enough to invest in Tesla in 2013 when it was a $3 billion market cap company. It had gone public >> Congrats. >> earlier $2 billion. Um and because we were able to invest in it at $3 billion, the growth in the value that subsequently accrued up to, you know, north of a trillion dollars, we were able to capture that for our for all of our clients in the public markets. All all of those clients that had it in their portfolios, which was a lot of them. Um SpaceX, now we've been able to capture the upside in that for our private clients, but so far our public clients have not been able to capture it. Now, we actually invested in SpaceX later than we invested in Tesla. We invested in SpaceX at a $30 billion valuation uh compared to three in Tesla. Um and so, I guess the point I'm trying to make is actually it's the same kinds of companies. Um it's just that uh these companies uh are private rather than public. Now, there are some clients that we have that can only do public market investing, and that's actually the bulk of our clients. Um within institutional asset allocators, there are often quite hard and fast delineations between the public team and the private team. And so, most of our business and our business that we've been building for 118 years is in the public markets. But, we've had a handful of clients that have been able to kind of come on this journey with us investing in these these high-growth private companies. And they sit in a range of different kinds of funds. We have some blended public private funds. Uh these are investment trust structures predominantly based here in the UK. Uh and then we have some dedicated pools of private capital. Now, one of those is an investment company structure. It's called the Shahalian Fund. And then we have uh a few more traditionally structured private company funds um that would look and feel a little bit more like what you would see in a in a of traditional private equity or growth equity manager fund. Ultimately, the journey we've been on is trying to convince our clients that hey, if you want exposure to the world's best growth companies, you're going to have to do this in the public in the private markets as well as the public markets. And we've built up this capability over the last 14 years to do that. Yeah, we've been in private markets for as as long as private growth equity markets for as long as they've been around. And so now we're really starting to see more and more more of our clients saying they just can't afford to not be investing in high growth private markets. And because we have these long-standing trusted relationships in the public markets, it's kind of translating quite naturally into working with them on the private side as well. >> And one thing, you know, like I'm curious to hear like your take on it. So, whenever you invest in public markets, let's say like typically I have like millions of dollars like that that that are like invested in public markets. Personally, I can leverage this to get debts and use this as a line of credit on anything. However, in private company, I probably have like hundreds of millions invested. However, if I want to put, you know, like my asset of private companies to get like leverage anywhere else, it's almost impossible or at least like very hard. So, from the investor like you work with, what's like your view on this and do you think it's going to evolve because you were also talking about the fact that actually right now if you look at private markets, back in the days they were almost zero liquidity. Now, if you take like Anduril, Anthropic, SpaceX, or whatever, it's trading almost in a similar way that you can see in in public markets. So, curious to like hear from your perspective as an investor, how do you see private market evolving so it benefits a lot more like the the investors and and potentially the people you know like your LPs in your fund. >> Yeah, so I guess couple of questions and I'll I'll I'll take the leverage one first and then maybe kind of how the secondary markets are evolving and some of those dynamics within private markets. So um I think leverage can have an important but very specific place in portfolio construction and in finance. Where you have uh regular and predictable cash flows um I think that leverage can be amazing for bolstering returns uh on equity. You know, and I'm I'm sort of talking here more probably from within businesses than at that kind of portfolio level and borrowing against portfolios, but you know, if we are shareholders in a company that's very profitable um leverage can be an amazing tool. So take Bending Spoons for instance. It's a very profitable business and they can use leverage very effectively to acquire new companies and delever very quickly as they start to get cash flows from those acquired businesses. Um however, if companies are not yet profitable or only at that early part of their journey in in in generating cash flow I think leverage can be a very bad thing. So if So most of our portfolio companies are not leveraged. Actually, even most of those that are profitable are not leveraged. But if a company is not yet cash flow positive, unless there's a very specific reason they should really not have debt within them. They should be a little bit more patient. They should be using equity to fund themselves because um a little bit more dilution never killed a business, but debt kills businesses. And we've seen businesses be killed by debt. Companies that if they had not taken on debt, could well have gone on to survive and thrived, but for a variety of reasons they geared up, took on debt, and that debt came to kill those companies. So where we see companies that are cash-flow positive, we're fairly relaxed about debt, provided there's a good reason for it. However, where companies are either not yet profitable or that kind of more nascent stage of their journey in profitability, we really counsel companies to avoid using debt. >> Okay. >> Makes sense. >> Um on on the second on the sort of broader kind of private market dynamics, I think you need to separate primary and secondary capital within private growth equity markets. Um cuz I think they're seeing two quite distinct pictures. On the primary side, so companies raising capital, going to investors, uh you know, giving them full information and and selecting a small number of partners that they want to work with as shareholders in their companies, I actually think this part of the market has become much more institutionalized, much more professional over the last 10 years. I would say actually specifically really since 2020 and 2021, there was a lot of hot money in those years. There were a lot of hedge funds. Um what happened in 2022 is a lot of those market participants got really badly burnt, and they left the market. And I think that's a really good thing. You want to see a rational, professional, institutionalized market in the growth stages of the private markets, as you see in many parts of the public markets. And you can see this in the financing rounds of some of the most prestigious companies. So, if you, you know, talk about Anduril, for instance, which we're shareholders in, if you look at some of their more recent rounds, they have skewed towards bringing in partners who are actually traditionally public market investors, that are large asset allocators, um that have been doing this for a really long time and have that level of sophistication. And because they get to choose who their investors are, they bring in those institutional investors, and they sort of say no to the uh uh sort of slightly hotter money, should we say. Um so, I actually feel pretty good about the standards, the level of underwriting, and the level of professionalization that you see within the primary parts of the private markets. Secondary markets are a little bit different. Um, there you do see uh sort of like FOMO dynamics. You will see people wanting to get access to companies where they actually don't even have information. So, they'll they'll know about a business by what they read in the press, but they have no idea what financials are. Which is crazy. [snorts] Like, I have no idea how you could decide that you want to invest in XYZ company. You've never seen a set of accounts of the business, let alone spent time with the management team. Um, so you do see some of that in the secondary markets. There is more liquidity in the secondary markets, and some of that's good. Like, it it can be useful for investors to be able to add to or reduce positions in secondary markets. But, what's not good is where you see investors coming into the secondary markets trying to get access to brand name companies where they don't know the management team, they've not spent time with them, they don't have access to financials, and they're just kind of waiting to get whatever valuation that that yeah, that that's out there. That is worrying. >> [snorts] >> But, like, what sits behind that? Well, what sits behind that is there's a cohort of amazing companies that only a very small number of institutions and investors can get access to. Like, we're fortunate enough to be one of those. We're fortunate enough to be one of those because we've been doing this for as long as this part of the market has existed. But, I do believe it's right that ordinary savers should be able to get access to these companies. Like, it's it has like created a lot of wealth for ordinary investors. SpaceX, it's been much more difficult for those ordinary investors to get access to these kind of companies. As a part of what we've tried to do is give ordinary investors access to those kind of companies. We do this from within these investment trust structures that I mentioned. So, the fund that we started doing that for uh was a fund in the UK called the Scottish Mortgage Portfolio. It's a 15 or so billion-dollar fund. Don't quite quite on that number, I it might be a little bit off. Uh and north of 30% of that fund is invested in private companies. In 2019, we launched a dedicated fund called the Schiehallion Fund, uh which today it's just shy of $2 billion in net asset value. Um anybody can go and buy shares in that company. And they can get access to SpaceX, uh ByteDance, Bendix Scoons, Databricks, Stripe, Anduril. Like I could go on. You can get access to those companies, you know, for as little as $2 if they want to buy a share. Uh very low management fees on that vehicle. It's freely tradable on the London Stock Exchange. And so, yeah, we found ways actually to sort of democratize access to some of these companies, but still do it in such a way where there is, you know, a high level of due diligence that goes into these companies where we are underwriting these companies with full information rights, full access into management. And so, individual investors don't have to make spurious decisions about, "Hey, well, I'm just going to buy something in an SPV and I've got no idea what it is." They know what's going into the Schiehallion Fund or um or Scottish Mortgage has been underwritten to the highest level of sort of, you know, professionalism and and experience from doing growth equity investing for over 100 years. >> And I I 100% like uh agree with uh what you were saying and the fact that you as like um you know, an investor with knowledge, with access to the information, you can make like this wise decision and, you know, invest globally, have like this also like uh portfolio kind of mindset. So, you have like uh I mean, the risk is not only on one single asset. However, don't you think that from um a psychological perspective, I feel like investing in companies for many people is a bit like uh you know, like buying a specific asset. So, I mean, in your case, whenever you buy into a fund, and I've invested, you know, like in in many funds, it's it's yeah, it's like I'm putting my money, I'm expecting a return, and that's it. There is no real like emotional connection. So, if the fund invests in an asset, I don't really feel like I own that asset, even though I'm investor in the fund. However, if I like invest directly into like Entropic, SpaceX, a Stripe, whatever, you know, when I'm at dinners, and people say, "Hey, like what's the latest investment?" You know, it's it it becomes something linked to your status, and I think that's what's make people feel good about investing, because the moment something becomes a status, you know, it's like the same for people, you know, who love to buy fancy watches or whatever. It's it's become something they are pride proud of. And I think like investing in the next companies is something like quite exciting for many. So, have you ever thought of it? And is it something you think of from time to time? Like, "Hey, couldn't we maybe have like uh vehicles that are probably much cleaner that anything you could find on the market with third layers of whomever taking like fees and fees, etc., etc., and just have uh uh you know, like the the people investing a little bit more uh involved directly in a single asset?" >> Yeah, I I suppose in a way what you're alluding to there is that um we we talk about investing as if it's one thing, but maybe it's two things. You know, on the one hand, maybe it's everything that you're talking about there, which is you know, the the excitement of it, the thrill of it, the status of it. And then there's another thing, which is solely focused on trying to make high returns over the long term. Um and sometimes those things can be the same thing, and other times they can be very, very different. Uh we're firmly focused on the latter. Um and to your question about sort of single asset uh vehicles um and dedicated exposure to individual companies. I mean, this is something that we do for our institutional clients through the co-invests that we also run. Um and there again, you're facing off with uh sort of professional institutions who have diversified portfolios, who can make very informed again understanding with information about what to invest in. And so there we will kind of offer that kind of single asset exposure. Whilst I think there's a lot to be said for the the that kind of first use case that we're talking about, the individual kind of excitement and um and sort of pride of owning particular companies, that can also be quite ephemeral. So, the company that can be uh the pride of everybody's portfolios today can very quickly fall out of favor for reasons that can actually have nothing to do with how the company's performing. Um and so I think that can be a little bit sort of more easy come, easy go, shall we say? Um and uh whilst I'm sure there are investment houses that will happily cater to that, I think one of the reasons that we've been able to survive as an institution for so long is cuz we focus on that campus trying to earn really high returns over the long term. And then if people want access to our capabilities, they can absolutely do that in our funds. And we would hope that they would take pride in owning the funds and owning the underlying assets that sit beneath the funds, which are, you know, very much there to give them exposure to these companies to enable them to make a lot of money over the long term if we do a good job for them. Uh but I don't think you would see us chasing uh the sort of um heat and excitement around particular areas unless we had some very strong conviction that something was going to be a great investment. And then you would see us express that through a large position in our portfolios. >> Yeah, super super interesting and I agree that it's really important to have one focus and uh obviously like you've done amazing, so congrats on on that. It It reminds me of a conversation I had with uh Larry Ashbrook, you know, the founder of G Squared. Where basically, you know, he was saying to your point that sometimes the shiniest asset are not the one that's going to return like the the best. So, for for example, for him like I know that he actually lost money on Uber and made money on Lyft. So, it's like Well, why is that you know, when you look at both companies you could think like hey, you investing in Uber you should be like the the most the richest person on earth, but sometimes it's not. And I I'd like to to maybe like understand a bit better like cuz I think from a company's perspective you know, like when whenever we looked at the past IPOs, something that happened is let's take for example Klarna or like these kind of like companies or even Figma and you know, like they they IPO'd and eventually after that, you know, like you see the the stock like start tanking and it goes like quite badly for the company and it's uh it's it's pretty tough, you know, out there in in public market. So do you think that uh as an investor you have like a better edge being like Baillie Gifford doing like both public and private? Do you think you have a better edge whenever you are like competing on deals because people would know that you are a long-term investor because whatever like and and I think the public market doesn't really know that. Like if you take I don't know like um anyone investing in public market can get excited at the IPO, but what they don't know is that people usually have like 6-month lockup periods. And after that, after 6 months we often see, you know, like the the stock tanking. So, retail start panicking and often, you know, like it's basically the people who are like retail not informed, etc. who who lose a lot of money on this because they would see something sinking and they would like start panicking. So, do you think because you have this kind of like really long-term strategy, it's it's a value add for companies and a competitive advantage or like how do you perceive it? >> Yeah, so I think drops are you right. Um every edge that we have as a private growth equity investor stands from the structural integration between public and private growth equity investing within Baillie Gifford. And you can sort of break that down across the different parts of the investing that matter. Accessing companies, analyzing those companies, and then adding value to those companies. So, on the access side, like yes, the fact that we are a large public market investor is of unbelievable importance to our ability to access companies. And it also helps that we've been in this market like for as long as it's existed. So, like you know, if you're a growth equity company, you know us, we know you. Like that's sort of we've started to have our own kind of right to win and ability as well. But ultimately, the fact that we can be a partner of continuity from private and into public markets, the fact that our public market teams, should they decide and it's at their discretion, you know, can conceivably write a billion-dollar check in an IPO is something that a VC investor or private only growth equity um investor simply can't do. Uh in a sense, by working with Baillie Gifford, you you you are able to start de-risking your financial future as a business and you're able to start de-risking who the owners of your business are going to be over the very long term, not just you for this bit in private markets. So, it's of integral importance to our ability to access companies. When it comes to analyzing those companies though, you know, we look at a thousand businesses a year and we're trying to make 10 investments, so we have to have a pretty good filter system to say no to 990 and pick the best 10. Um again, our ability to draw on our public market analytical infrastructure is really important. Just to bring that to life a little bit. So, we uh we we do all of our own research in-house, so we never rely on consultants or anything like that. Our research in public and private markets all done by investors at Bain Capital. All of that research is stored in something that we call our research library, a piece of software, and in there there are about 75, 80,000 proprietary research reports written by my colleagues over the course of the last 30, 40 years. I can go and draw on all of that in understanding the defense sector if I'm looking at Anduril or looking at software roll-up stories if I'm looking at Bendix Spoons, or I can go and look at our early work on Meta if I'm looking at ByteDance. Like, I can I can draw on that institutional knowledge, and because people spend virtually their entire careers within this firm, I can probably also just go and speak to the person who wrote that research, you know, 15 years ago. They're probably just sitting, you know, you know, a few meters away from me. And I can then draw those people into our research processes. So, that kind of ability to draw on the information, but the institutional heritage around growth equity investing is really important in us then separating the wheat from the chaff in all the stuff that we've been able to access. And then in adding value to those companies, you know, because we know and care about public market governance, for instance, we can help companies get ready for being a public company. We can help them transition from an investor-led board to an independent-led board. We can help them establish a an effective and palatable dual-class share structure. We can help our private companies network within the thousand public businesses that we own. Like, this is this is the crux of our competitive advantage, and it's structural. So, it's you know, we we don't sit here saying, well, you know, we've got a competitive advantage because so-and-so is an amazing investor. We say we have a competitive advantage because we have this structure. And that will outlive any individual investor at Baillie Gifford. It will persist long after I'm gone. Um and ultimately that organizational edge, that organizational stability is what clients should really be underwriting when they are choosing partners in the private markets where you're sort of locked into a fund. You know, you you can't just get out if you decide something's wrong. So, it's it's something that's very important to us and something that we've been very intentional on building in to our private business, which is this kind of structural edge. Um your second question was kind of about IPOs and you know, I think you're also trying to get like what what makes a good IPO versus a bad IPO and how can you what are the signs that you could look for as to tell whether a you know, an IPO is going to be effective or not? There's a truest answer to this, which is like if a company is a great business, it's probably going to have a good IPO and if it's a mediocre business, it probably won't or it might for a bit and then get found out. There's a little bit of a truism perhaps, but what what might be a little bit more insightful than that slight than that slightly obvious answer. So, companies can choose to optimize for certain things when they come to the public markets. Um they can choose to optimize for price if they want. Get the highest possible price in an IPO, minimize dilution from an IPO. Um those IPOs usually end badly. Uh because if you optimize for price at the point of IPO, uh you're not really leaving enough on the table for new investors coming in to have a good experience. You're not building trust with the public markets and trust is so important both in public and private markets, but I think people really undervalue it as a currency in uh in the public markets. Or you can optimize for the quality of your partners. Now, that might mean that you don't get the highest possible price on the day the IPO opens. But, it might mean that you get investors that can be with you for the journey, that can support you in difficult times, where by leaving a little bit of value on the table, you can make sure those investors have a good experience, which makes them more likely to help and support you in the future. Uh something I often tell our portfolio companies as they come to the public markets is that an IPO roadshow is about is yes, certainly about attracting the right kind of investors, but it's also about putting off the wrong kind of investors. Yeah, there's I think it's Buffett who says that you get the shareholders you deserve. I I strongly believe that. And if you look at the shareholder registers of you take a business like Amazon for much of its history, it actually had a very stable group of long-term investors that stuck with it at the top of its cap table throughout its journey. And there's an argument to be made that a stable, strong, supportive investor base can be part of the company's competitive advantage. And so, to answer the question briefly, what is it that we like to see our you know, companies do in IPOs? We like to see them optimizing for the right kinds of partners, the quality of the investor, not optimizing for valuation in IPOs. >> Super interesting and I want to continue on that topic and take the the couple of example you mentioned. Uh do you think that for Amazon cuz Amazon basically was criticized a lot when it entered like the the public market because it was uh not um profitable at the time. And I think back then it was not as common as it is now to have companies losing so much money. So, I think like at the time it required people with um with a certain mindset, you know, like uh long-term thinker that the company would actually be um you know, become uh what it is today. And I want to make the parallel with uh with SpaceX. So, if you look at the the valuation of SpaceX versus the revenue and you look at the revenue multiple, uh I think I think they're at like 18 billion or something like this uh in in revenue and potentially want to IPO at like uh 1.75 trillion. It's not like uh it's numbers on the press like or this kind of thing, so it's not super accurate like we don't know yet, but it's what we see. So, what what's kind of your vision on how do you value a company? And also, do you think that these companies who have extremely big long-term bets can actually attract investors who are here a lot more for the long-term and not just trying to make a quick buck on uh an IPO opportunities that they see and where they can kind of like play with public market? >> Yeah. Yeah, so I think I think the first thing to say is that when you invest in a company, you need to understand how the founder is going to run a business, what they will optimize for, and the kind of risks they go to take and underwrite within that company. So, we we first invested in Amazon in 2004, but I can't take any credit for that, but um I think it was actually very clear at that point in time how Jeff Bezos was going to run the company. And it was very clear cuz you could just go and read his shareholder letter from when he IPO'd. And again, this is something you go back to the previous question. I think when founders very clearly communicate how they will run their business and the things they will optimize for in an IPO in an IPO letter, I think it's actually very effective. What did Bezos say? He said that he was going to run Amazon to optimize for long-term free cash flow per share. And it was also very clear that sometimes that would mean taking bets that had low probability of low probability payoffs but high impact payoffs. So where the you know the the magnitude of the payoff would more than outweigh the low probability. That's what he did. He did did that consistently. Um I think Musk is actually pretty similar in terms of how he runs his businesses. What you know about Elon Musk is that every couple of years he will bet the house. He will you know put everything on black in his companies. And we saw him do that time and time again in Tesla. Uh you know whether it was you know going through production hell, kind of scaling up the Model Y. Uh we and we've seen him do it in SpaceX as well. You know initially initially he was launching rockets. Then it was reusable rockets. It was betting the house on reusable rockets. Uh then it was Starlink. Betting the house on Starlink. And then Starship. Betting the house on Starship. You know and now it's the next generation which is saying, "Hey, you know maybe we can do orbital data centers." And he's not going to take that bet half-hearted. So if you're going to own these companies, you need to know the kind of way in which they will be operated and how the founders of those businesses will take risk. And if you don't like that and you don't want founders that are going to take risk in that kind of way, it's fine. Just don't own them. Just don't invest in them. Um When we're investing, we're underwriting to five times upside. So we're trying to find companies where we can make five times our money. That's not an easy thing to do. It's not easy to grow a company's value five times. To do to grow the value of a company five times, you have to be in a business that's willing to take risk. And our job as investors is to try to press that risk. And say, "If a founder is going to run a business in this kind of way and there are these kind of businesses risks inherent within the business, are we paying a price today that is going to reward us for those risks being taken and mean that in the event that those risks pan out we're going to get really rewarded for taking that risk. And again, going back to SpaceX, the journey so far has been very much that like that has worked out. It was not clear that any of these step functions would work. It wasn't clear that Starlink would work. It wasn't clear that Starship is working the way it is. And today it's not clear that Orbital Data Centers will work, but there is risk that's being taken. And so you need to make sure when you're investing in a company that you can still see that path to a five times upside scenario. Now, I can't tell you whether SpaceX has that today cuz I can't tell you what the valuation is going to be in the IPO. And the maths are very, very different if it's uh, you know, one and a half trillion-dollar IPO compared to if it's a two and a half trillion-dollar IPO. >> [snorts] >> Um, but ultimately that's what we're trying to do. We're trying to underwrite those five times upside scenarios. We're trying to find founders that are willing and able to take risk and then they're able to execute on the delivery of that risk. >> So lesson is never bet against Elon. >> [laughter] >> That's why it wouldn't have been wise to bet against him. >> And uh, and looking at ByteDance cuz I think it's a company you also invested in, I think it's kind of like the the opposite of of like a SpaceX like I've came across some numbers not sure if they're accurate but I think it was like 50 million EBITDA or something like this. Like what's Why do you think the valuation is like so low in a sense because I think like if you look on private market ByteDance is probably trading at around like 600 billion. It's hard to trade ByteDance because obviously there are a lot of restriction and a lot of like I think it's geopolitical also like climate that is a bit tense between the US and China but How do you explain like such a low valuation if these numbers are accurate? >> Yeah. So ByteDance is way too cheap. And by the way, it's not as cheap as it was when we were buying shares a couple of years ago at about four times free cash flow. Uh for a company that was growing really, really um So, what's going on with ByteDance? I I can't think of a company in sort of my 15 years of investing where the price is so disconnected from the fundamentals of the business yet for rational reasons. And let me unpack that a little bit. So, yeah, on one hand, the share price of a company should be driven by the fundamentals of the business. On the other hand, it's also driven by the demand and supply dynamics of those shares. And I think that what the picture that we've seen in ByteDance over the last five or six years is where the demand-supply dynamics have swamped the um the business fundamental dynamics in the share price. So, if you look at who owns ByteDance and who might I buy ByteDance, well, anybody that owns ByteDance, if you were an early-stage investor in ByteDance, um even, you know, at a two, three, four, five, six hundred billion-dollar valuation, it's the best investment that they will have ever made and probably will ever make. And it's probably 99% of the value of their funds. And they probably have their LPs saying, "Great job, guys. Please, can we just have some money back?" And by the way, if you give us some of that money back, you're going to crystallize astronomical amounts of carried interest. Please, just sell some. And a lot of those early-stage investors will say, "Yep, that's a very rational thing to do. Even if I'm going to keep a large amount of my, you know, position, I'm going to sell a little bit." And because the company is so big, selling a little bit of an early-stage VC portfolio can be hundreds of millions of dollars or billions of dollars of supply. So, this is actually quite a rational uh you know, supply dynamic in the shares of Bytedance. What about the demand side? Well, Bytedance is like probably the most controversial company in the world. I mean, it's probably a little bit less controversial now, but if you go back a few years ago where it really looked like TikTok might get banned, it was the most controversial company in the world. Like, who wants the headache of buying a really controversial company? And plus you had a lot of US investors that were just not going to touch it with a barge pole. And so there were actually quite rational reasons as to why there wasn't much demand for the shares. So, lots of supply, not much demand. What happens? A low share price, low multiple on our free cash flow. Um we, I guess, were in a fortunate position of having owned the shares for quite a while. We knew the company really well, so of course we had really good information, right? We spent a lot of time with the management team. And we sort of came to the view that, well, hey, even if the worst case materialized around TikTok, um and it was worth nothing and it was shut down. So, like, worst case scenario, we could still see a path to the company being very fast growing, very, very profitable, and still massively undervalued. Um and we could see these demand-supply dynamics, and it felt it felt as close to an arbitrage as as I've ever seen. You don't see many arbitrages in growth equity investing. It kind of felt a little bit like one. It felt like you you were just being paid to take risk. You're being paid so much to take the risks that were inherent to the business. Not to mention uh geopolitical risks. They exist. They are there for real. But when we were buying shares at kind of four times free cash flow, it sort of felt like we were being paid to take those risks. Um and so we were kind of able to kind of step into the middle of these demand-supply dynamics and quite materially top up our position. Um it's an astonishing business and and it's it's and it's so misunderstood. Like, people in the West think it's all about TikTok. It's really not about TikTok. >> Yeah, it's the AI. >> Oh, yeah. >> Yeah. >> It's about their it's their you know, the biggest e-com the the um online advertising company in China. They're on track to be the biggest e-commerce company in China, and they've arguably got one of the best foundational models in China. >> Yeah. >> So, in the form of ByteDance, you have this company that is potentially uh meta, Amazon, and OpenAI/Anthropic all rolled into one, and you can buy it today for as you said about 600 billion dollars. It's, you know, it's on you know, not much put between it in terms of size with meta, and meta's what, 1.5, 1.7 trillion, something like that. ByteDance is already 50 times larger than than meta was when it came to the public markets, and it's still private. Um so, I think ByteDance is a phenomenal business. I think it's drastically underpriced. Uh I'm very happy to own all of it in our portfolios. I'm really glad that we're able to give our own clients exposure to the business. >> And to build up on that, because I agree with you, like I think everyone think it's about TikTok, but it's a lot more than this, and it's actually like really interesting that you that you mention it. Like what what's kind of like your your view as a as a global investor? Because if you if you think of it like from a pure like media perspective, I think like we know that the the US globally control a certain narrative. Like they have meta, they have Google, they have LinkedIn, they have basically like every source of communication is coming through the US. I don't want to go into like conspiracy theory or whatever, because I think it's But it's it's just a fact that they own, you know, like how the message is delivered, and the US is also like attracting a lot of capital just because, you know, they have like a a great public market. However, if you look at China, I mean, in many ways, they are doing things that are better than you know, what what is happening in the US. If you look at robotics, if you're looking at at cars, in AI, I think they're like very very close and sometimes better in certain like So, from a from a private investor perspective, like how exactly do you look at China? Is it something where you feel the risk of the regime is is actually too high sometimes to actually go invest? Or because as you said, you know, it's driven by also supply and demand. And right now, the truth is the demand is always going to the US at the moment, at least for retail. So, what's your view on it? And do you think that the mindset and the mentality of people's going to evolve over time? >> Yeah, so I think the first thing to say is that we're global investor. And so, we will look for businesses, exceptional businesses wherever they might arise. And actually, our very first private investment was in China. Okay. Alibaba was our very first private >> Good start. Not bad. Good start. >> I think there's a narrative that people have about China, which which is consistently wrong and goes something a little bit like this. It goes "Well, we in the West or we in America, like we can do X. X is really hard. China is not going to be able to do X. Don't worry, like we've got this." And X could have been internet companies. You know, it could have been, you know, if you kind of go back to the uh you know, the 2000s, like China China's internet companies are never going to be as good as America's internet companies because, hey, it's just really hard and they'll never figure it out. Then there was I don't even probably going back before that, there was a narrative about cars on that. And this probably came a little bit more from Europe. It was like, well, you know, if China's never going to be able to make cars cuz cars are really hard and you know, they're not going to be able to get the sound of the door closing right or something or they can't make internal Oh, yeah, just some kind of I mean, basic nonsense, right? But there was a narrative that the wouldn't be able to make cars. And then you know what it turns out actually China they can make really good cars and they can make really good internet companies. And that narrative currently today applies to AI and applies to semiconductors and that narrative goes like well hey China's never going to be able to do this it's just really hard. Do you know what? There's like 1.4 billion people like they're smart they'll figure it out. Um and so history tells us that any narrative that says China can't do X is wrong. Um and you know added to that it's the biggest market in the world by people like it it's not going to be long and they'll be the biggest market in the world in terms of you know economics. Um as a growth investor I think you like ignore China at your peril. I I was out there uh in the summer last year and I was meeting companies actually you know along the lines of what you were saying with a lot of hardware and robotics companies that were doing things that um US companies been trying and failing to do for years. They were doing them at scale they were growing quickly they were profitable. And Chinese companies have such competitive advantage doing anything in hardware cuz they're close close to the supply chain. And these companies were on really low valuations as well because a lot of international global investors just aren't looking at China right now. Like I've spoken to a lot of people over the last few years peers at other investment firms who said well you know hey we we've closed that China office and like it's you know it's a bit difficult for us right now. Like that makes me really excited. That makes me want to go and invest more in China. Cuz I've no doubt that China will continue to create amazing companies. Is there geopolitical risk? Yeah there's geopolitical risk. Do you know where else there's geopolitical risk? America. >> Yeah. >> So so the question is not like is there geopolitical risk it's are you being paid to take that geopolitical risk? Um Henrik who works with me on the private company team he's out there at the moment trying to find great businesses. He's finding loads of really interesting things. We have a we have a an investment team in China they they predominantly focus on public markets but they're really tuned in into private markets as well. Again we they they help us source companies, they help us diligence companies. Um and so I I think it's important to be investing in China. Like any market, will I want it to be an outsized part of the portfolio? No, we have to balance risk. We have to diversify. But I think it would be borderline negligence not be looking at China if you're a growth equity investor. >> And there's been a narrative, you know, like about China that and same on Biden's actually, you know, that it's very difficult to double-check the numbers. Like are they faking, etc., etc. Like what's your what's your view on this? As an investor, you know. >> Well, my honest take is I don't think there's anything that's systematically different in our part of the market investing in China compared to investing in the US. Um can numbers be unaudited? Like yeah, we see unaudited numbers in China. Like we see lots of unaudited numbers in the US. Um like we've like I can't think like I can think of examples where we've been misled by American companies. I actually can't think of any examples in the private markets where we've been misled by Chinese companies. So I think that um Like I think it's a classic othering thing, right? Like it's you know, if you're from a particular place, those people over there, you know, are doing something a little bit different, seems a little bit threatening. Well, I'm not sure I'm going to come up with lots of other reasons about why I can't go there. Um I actually think that when you start breaking down these kind of barriers, you'll realize that there is way more that unites companies, the quality of companies, and what makes them special across geographies than there is that divides them. And uh You have to always keep a high bar. Wherever you're investing, that bar should be super high, and that bar should be high in China, it should be high in the US, it should be high in Europe. But when you find amazing companies and where you're appropriately recognizing the risks that you're taking, you're being paid to take these risks, you should take them. >> And from a liquidity perspective, because earlier on you knew you know you mentioned that the valuation of a company is also driven by supply and demand. Um so that's what can explain you know sometimes like super high valuation or super low valuation. I think like Entropic right now is a good good representation of supply and demand. So from your side like investing in in China or like other market where where you might have like a little bit less liquidity. Like how do you like see it from an investor perspective managing like DPI? Do you always wait for potentially IPO and and more or like do you also like decide to sell some part of your portfolio? Like how exactly do you manage all of that? >> I think those things you mentioned like that they're tools in a portfolio portfolio in in portfolio management. Um So when we think about liquidity, most of our companies will become public. So you know in the 14 years that we've been investing in private companies, we've invested in about 170 companies. Um and we've seen about 60 70 IPOs from our portfolios. We've only seen a handful of companies be acquired. So we're trying deliberately to find companies that have the ambition to be public and will go on to become public. And so over the longer term, most of our liquidity will come from public markets. Um however, it would be negligent not to be aware of the liquidity dynamics in private markets. And we have selectively used secondary markets in some cases to trim holdings that are really working but where we think the valuation is getting a little bit ahead of themselves. Um in some cases to completely exit positions. Now when we're doing this, most important thing is to be really up front and transparent with companies about what what we're doing. Um most companies understand that you know, you can sell a little bit of your holding but still be very long-term in a company. They understand the dynamics and pressures within investment management and funds. Um, we do need to make sure that we are living up to what we say we are. We say we are long-term. We are long-term. It's just in the data. Um, and so we can't suddenly just start trading around in companies. That would not be congruent with not only our investment beliefs but our reputation. Um, but these are tools and they are tools to be used uh within the context of portfolio management, whether that's public market liquidity or private sector market liquidity. >> And um like you mentioned earlier, I think your goal is to do like 5x on pretty much like every investment. So, I assume this is a the goal of the fund to return like 5x. So, whenever you look at your DPI, I understand that you want to uh obviously wait as long as possible and wait for the IPO because these are bets, you know, that are like long-term. But, do you have like uh rules kind of to manage DPI? I've talked to people, you know, who talk about like uh a third a third a third or like the no regret 50, you know, so it's like uh when the company has reached, let's say, like uh your 5x DPI that is your goal, you basically sell like 50% uh of uh or like uh 50% of the global position. That way you anchor like 2.5x DPI and then the rest can actually like be a a longer term bet. Like, do you have like simple rules or is it just like uh case per case basis and uh yeah? >> Uh so so we underwrite 5x when we invest in a company. Now, I would love to be able to tell you we get it right every time. We don't. So, sadly our funds don't return five times. Uh they they've got some good returns on them but not five times. You know, we we set that level of five times because it forces us to be ambitious and try to identify outliers. Sometimes, in fact, it's very rare that we find a company that does exactly five times. Like, normally they either do a lot more less. Uh so, the five times is more of a a heuristic or methodology to help us try to find outliers. Um uh With regards to distributions, so it depends which fund we're talking about. Uh so, we manage a number of different pools of capital. Um we have our first fund, the Shahalian fund that I mentioned to you already. That's a permanent pool of capital, it's an evergreen structure. So, that fund actually has a mandate to own, if it wants, for a really long time into the public markets. So, in that fund, for instance, we still own a firm, we still own Wise, we still own Tempus. You know, these companies have been public for a long time. Some of our clients wanted us to do that. Uh we have another group of clients that say, "Hey, I want a slightly more traditional private company experience." Um for those clients, we have uh limited life funds, and those funds uh once companies become public, they're more likely to look for liquidity uh probably within the first couple of years of the the company being public. >> Okay. And and the fund is structured in a way where you take both because I'm wondering when you're like a a really like long long-term investor like this, do you also take carry and management fee like every fund? Because I mean, as an investor, eventually, you know, like uh uh I mean, you're it's it's also you like taking the risk, and it's cool that you are rewarded for the risk you take. So, I think carry is like the best way to align both the investor and the LP. So, as a as a like fund manager and investor, like do you get the carry like uh in the same way as every other fund, or how does that work exactly? >> So, again, it slightly depends which fund we're talking about. So, the first fund that we launched, the Shahalian fund, actually doesn't have a carry fee. Uh it has net asset value-based fee, so it still provides alignment. Our management fee grows if the value of the fund grows. Our management fee goes down if the value of the fund shrinks. So, you're aligned that way. Um all more traditional funds have carried interest structures and more conventional management fee structures. However, we've deliberately tried it to keep those fees fair. So, um we we will charge on invested capital rather than committed capital, which actually makes a really big difference on the fees that investors pay in the early years of a fund. Um and our management fees and our carried interest fees are actually quite a lot lower than you would typically associate with an investor of our kind. And we've done that just because we we're trying to give this this this this capability to our clients at what we believe is the right and fair price. And frankly for many of our peers, I think their fees have got a little bit ahead of themselves. >> Can you share like the the numbers or is it uh >> Yeah, so our our main funds have a a sort of a base one and 10 structure. So, half of what you would see with another fund. 20 20 fund. Now, in our more recent fund at higher levels of return, there are step ups in that carry. Again, that's sort of incentivizing those kind of very very high levels of return. But, we start at one and 10. We have an 8% hurdle charging on invested rather than committed carry. These are you know, very very LP friendly fees. >> Yeah, that's uh it's crazy cuz I've seen like uh 225, 220 or like being the the norm. Okay, that's that's interesting. And um yeah, I was like on the on the DPI like do you also like do sometimes like uh like if you have LPs for example in a fund who wants actual DPI, do you like uh how exactly does that work like when a LP said, you know, like hey, I would like maybe a bit more cash. Like are they all long term or are there sometimes people you know, who want liquidity and then like do you have to to make this work for them like or how exactly does that work? >> I I think we're lucky to have a very long-term group of clients, many of whom have worked with us for decades in the public markets and then who also work with in the private markets. Most of these funds are pooled funds. So, you you can't do what a single LP is asking you to do because that will then apply to the rest of the client base. And so, you ultimately we have to do what we believe is right for all all clients and all investors in those funds those funds as we treat them all fairly. And sometimes that means distributing sooner and sometimes it means distributing later. >> Okay. And I know we're almost like out of time. So, I would love to know like uh is there like is there an investment you've made that you really kind of like regretted or where looking at it backwards you're like I should have known better and uh I hear like are the things that I would do like differently or that I'm doing differently to avoid this kind of uh of like mistakes? >> Well, your question is about like so what mistakes do we make and how do we learn and improve for those mistakes? I mean, that that's not a question for the last 2 minutes. That's a question for a whole 'nother podcast, I think. Um yes, of course we make mistakes and yes, of course we've learned from them. Um but one of our highest profile mistakes was Northvolt. That was a very bad investment for us. What did we get wrong there? I think we were too enamored with uh the need for a company like Northvolt. Um and we thought we were taking growth equity risk and actually I think we were taking venture equity risk. So, the company you know, had these large take or pay contracts but was actually very early in its execution journey and its revenue generation. So, what do you learn from that? Well, you make sure that you focus much more on execution. You try to avoid the sort of thematic style investing. We're very much bottom-up stock pickers. Um and uh and you make sure that if you're investing in a company, it's genuinely a growth stage company, not a venture stage company masquerading as a growth stage company. >> Super interesting. I would I could be talking about this for hours and uh I didn't really see like the time pass by. So, thanks for the quick reminder. So, Peter, like thanks a lot like for your time. Where can people like follow you and follow your updates and Baillie Gifford also? >> I'll ask you a question. Um I don't really have much of an online sort of presence or persona, I'm afraid, but um on our website, the Baillie Gifford website, there's a tab up there which is private companies. If you go on that, you can see all of our investments. You can see some sort of your pieces that we put out sort of your articulating how we see the world and our beliefs about investing. So, yeah, the Baillie Gifford website is probably the best starting place for anyone who wants to learn more about what we do in private growth equity investing. >> Thanks a lot, Peter, and have an amazing day. >> [music] [music]
