# How a $75 sneaker bot became a $300M-Month financial engine - Steven Schwartz [Whop]

Channel: Guillaume Moubeche (personal)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=EDoDTo1zXYQ
Upload date: 2026-06-04

---

the faster we can get it to zero, at least that part of the business, the better. The idea is one thing, but how the idea is actually executed is a little bit different. If everybody has access to AI, then it doesn't really give anybody an advantage. Culture is existential, and that means you're going to attract the right talent. Do not give up under any circumstances. It's only your fault. Today on Billions, I'm sitting down with Steven Schwarz, co-founder of What started with a $75 sneaker bot on Facebook has exploded into a global platform where nearly 40,000 people now earn over $300 million every single month. WAP is redefining how to make money on the internet processing nearly $1 million daily in physical sales alone. Steven, thanks for being here. Stephen, c can you tell me a bit about Whoop and why did you started that company? >> Yeah, totally. So I met my co-founder when we were really young and we met on Facebook and built so many different businesses on the internet and uh it felt like everybody should have the ability to do that but for whatever reason not everyone had their own business and uh it was pretty difficult to to people to do that. So we first launched as a way for us to sell our own software and people uh saw it and they're like can we also sell on the platform and we let them do that and then it blossomed into uh a lot of people selling a lot of different things and um and uh our mission now is to deliver everyone a sustainable income and we basically sit here all day and craft ways that people can do that and one of the ways is to start a business. Other ways include things like clipping and content rewards and data labeling, leasing apartments out, going live stream yourself and doing different things. There's all sorts of ways people can make money on the internet. >> What was the the first way you made money on the internet? >> First way I made money on the internet was by selling a sneaker bot in Facebook groups. So I would my co-founder Cameron he posted he said I'm looking for an iOS developer and I was learning how to program at the time and I responded to his post and we built a iOS app that monitored Twitter Nike's Twitter and it would automatically buy Yeezy's different shoes Kobes when they came out and uh we sold that to people in the Facebook group and that's the first I remember like $75 I made on the internet. How did you feel when you made like that first money? >> Uh, it was like very addicting. Um, I think we never really spent the money, you know? I mean, we never really like bought that many things. Cameron dropped out of high school, so he didn't really need any money. I think he only the only thing he bought was like a really nice Tesla in like 2015. Uh, and then other than that, I mean, he's wearing flip-flops every day and shitty t-shirt. And I think it was more like uh I think a good way to measure progress and make sure that people were happy with the products we built more than it was to actually go buy watches or anything like that. >> And how did you first get started, you know, about like whoop like what was the first vertical you started to address? >> So we found all these forums online where people were selling software and it was a similar uh situation to what we had the reason Cameron and I met which was very niche downloadable software. or you typed in a license key to use it. People were making those and the first vertical of was software. So desktop software people could come on and they could sell their desktop software. And um some people wanted to sell alongside the software a video to learn how to use the software and a chat room that let everybody talk who was using the software at once. And then people were like, wait, we don't actually need to sell the software. We can just sell the video and the chat room. Um, and then that unlocked all of the modern whatever course all that all of those types of SKUs and uh I mean now we have almost a million dollars a day in physical product sales. So uh first vertical was software and it quickly started to uh we had a lot of requests for a lot more. >> And do you like uh help people who don't know how to make money make money? >> We you do help people who don't know how to make money make money. Um our our mission is is important that everybody is able to make money, not just the smartest people that are already really savvy. So um if you're not wanting to start a business, then uh you can basically go to our site, sign up, and we tell you uh easier ways to make money that are more structured and more in your control. Uh for example, posting content or uh giving businesses feedback or whatever other uh interesting tasks missions that businesses find valuable to them. Um or of course you can start a business and and we absolutely help you with that from the idea target market uh getting customers via ads or uh figuring out which customers to message, what product to release next, all sorts of that all that stuff. So uh yes, we we definitely help people who who don't know how to make money make money. >> And uh how did you get your first customers? >> We were our first customers. So we were the first sellers on the platform and it was very easy uh to know what to build because it was like we need this or we're going to build it and uh we were the first customers and it's still a very core principle of ours that we build for ourselves. >> And you built like a a payments infrastructure also. No, >> we well so part of making money on the internet involves payments, right? So we never like, well, let's build a payment processing company. That sounds really cool. It's actually pretty lame, I think. I I don't think that's ever what we wanted. >> Don't tell that to Stripe. >> Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think I think it doesn't really solve what matters anymore. There's so many payment processing companies. Every there's like 50 different payment processing companies and it's like how many ways can you accept a credit card? It's like you get it, you can accept a credit card. Uh but because we uh have have our our goal of of making people money, payments are going to be important. And what happened was we had just grown up building all these different payment products. And before we had a a a little business that wasn't really a business, but it was more of a charity that we gave homeless people in New York a QR code that they could it was laminated. Had had a QR code on it and big all it was was a QR code. People could scan it and they pull up a profile of uh the the homeless person who they are, what their background is, all that. And they could actually Apple pay them, VMO them and cash app them, and the homeless people could pick up cash from us in in Midtown. Um, and we we'd always been doing all these little micro payment uh projects. So, we knew how to build payments. Well, and we did. And then people were like, "All right, we like your payments." And and uh people love it. So, so we that's that's what uh your question. Do we build our own payment processing? Like kind of uh we have a bunch of embeddible components that uh you can use to accept payments in your website, in your iOS app, um from your phone, whatever you want. And basically every single currency and every single local payment method. uh you can charge people in a if you ever been to to like Morocco or somewhere where it's going to be hard to figure out how to broker deals with your cab driver, you can do that on log very easily. >> And from that u you know like payment infrastructure most companies are trying you know to increase the fees and make like a huge markup on top of it. From what I've heard you reduced the the margin a lot. Can you like explain like the reasoning behind it? Um, we think that the payments piece is super commoditized and it's like we're not trying to play a game of raising to the bottom because like I said, there's 50 companies that can help process payments. So for us, the faster we can get it to zero, at least that part of the business, the better. Um, so we we are not trying to make our money from pure payment processing. That's why we have it cheapest. >> And how do you make money? Uh so there's there's um a lot of other things you can do on Wapin accept payments and some of those things right now uh you can u you can invest in in bitcoin you can invest in in uh tokenized securities you can issue cards pretty soon you can uh run ads and we make more money on those you can accept financing buy now pay later and make more money on that. Um so those are those that's how we make money. And do you feel now you're more like of a global infrastructure for business? >> I do feel like that. I feel like our number one priority right now is to make sure that we're onboarding as many businesses and platforms as we can. And uh through that uh we we want to focus first and foremost on business owners and people that have their own business. >> And I think recently you've made like a a partnership or fund raise with Tet. >> That's right. Can you explain like why you did it and uh what's the goal with it long term? >> Yeah, so Tether is the biggest stable coin company in the world and they basically are the predominant currency and for for uh maybe almost 10% of the entire globe and uh I think they have 550 million people a month that use tether. So um we are in in a lot of ways uh relevant to that because how are people actually making the money and um if people can use to make the money and uh use stablecoin rails and use tether to facilitate transfers and all the cool stuff that people want to do with their money afterwards. It's a really awesome partnership. So they they agreed to invest in in and they've invested in and uh we are very close with their team and they're awesome awesome people. Uh it's really cool and congrats with the partnership. It's uh it's really inspiring. >> Thank you. And whenever you you want to build like uh all this functionality and features like uh being able to get a credit card etc. I'm assuming in the US you have also like a lot of uh legislation and um so how exactly do you tackle these kind of problems? >> Yes, totally. Um there's KYC and through KYC we uh make sure that we're not um we we know who we're uh is making the money and um it's not somebody in in a terrorist group for example and there's different uh requirements that are mostly on like anti-moneyaundering, right? The government doesn't want people to be washing money and and laundering their money. So they have a a database that um we we partner up with uh different providers and they check to see okay this person is who they say they are. Um they uh are not on in a crime circle and and it's okay to send them money. So um we we have that h so we have very good KYC and very good guard rails on who the people are. Uh and then there's what are people actually selling. So if you're if you're a a quality person, you're not in a crime circle, but you're selling drugs on the platform, that needs to be off the platform, and we have a lot of monitoring and uh very extensive reporting around all that. And when there's bad stuff, we have to report it. And we and it's uh those are some of the legislation, I suppose, around uh what you're asking. We take all that very seriously. And part of our responsibility in uh building an internet market is to make sure everyone's safe. So um we we uh it's important part of our business. So whenever you started this, you started like with uh different partners who have like licenses and and are regulated to accelerate like the setup. Is it something long-term that you want to internalize or do you feel like uh some of the features you're developing are fine with with partners? So, we want to lean hard into um the future of stable coins and um I think because the uh inherently when you when you deal with the blockchain and you deal with stable coins, everything is transparent and open and there's not a lot of uh you can't really fake much. So the more we lean into that, the the fewer um uh in-house uh things we have to do because um everything is on chain and it's actually the people are the ones that have the money and are moving the money and so on. So our first my first answer is that long term we want to uh be more on chain and um take advantage of the the uh the good that stable coins bring. Um I think in the short term we are very um invested in partners that have already figured all that stuff out and our bread and butter again isn't really on payment processing. We're not even we don't even call ourselves a payment processor. People call us that but it's it's more that we've integrated the right partners and have available the right features uh that let people do that and we don't have to get the licensing because they all have it and they've been working in the last 10 15 years on that and we can focus on uh other parts of the business journey that um we feel we're better at. And can you explain for people like uh the difference of teter versus like u I don't know USD that you would process like what's the difference and what makes it >> the difference of tether and USDC or USD >> no like fiat currency I don't say >> well there's actually no difference of of tether and USD but the real value of tether is that if you are in a country that doesn't support bank accounts which is a lot of people in the west take advantage of the fact that we have a bank account with Chase and Bank of America. But if you're going to go to Latin America and you're going to go to Guatemala, you're going to go to Morocco, you're going to go to Nigeria or wherever other country, Thailand, um they have way less infrastructure that lets them build uh credit and and have a real bank account and they don't even often times they get rejected for for no reason or I mean there's not even a there's not even a pathway for them to open a bank account. So the the um what Tether unlocks is a open network that uh everybody in Thailand and and Morocco and Nigeria and Latin America can all use. And if you want to send money from from Thailand to Morocco, you can do that. But if you don't have Tether, then you have to have the local banking rails, which is like kind of a huge pain in the ass. You think this money a Nigerian bank is going to talk to a bank in Thailand like it's going to be weeks and then you're going to pay huge percentages in forex pro fees. So it's just a nightmare. And uh Tether is a is an open network that lets uh those transactions happen without intermediaries. >> Nice. >> And it's fast. >> Yeah. >> And how exactly did you build that partnership? >> Um >> because I'm assuming that a lot of people want to partner with TERS. No. >> Yeah, I think so. Um I I would say that um we got connected through through mutual relationships and um we already have a huge amount of people that are earning money and I mean we have almost 40,000 people a month that are earning over $300 million now each month. So that's like a pretty sizable amount of people and sizable amount of earnings. And I I'd say that uh Tether wants to make sure that they're partnering with the platforms that are uh that really care about their growth and and are ambitious and are trying to build the future that is is more open and and uh I don't know how many platforms are like that. So So I think I think because of that it's there's a likely eagerness to work with us and and vice versa with them. You talked a lot about internationalization and the fact that uh you had like people a bit all over the globe. So how do you build a company with so many different region and geographies? It's hard. There's there's uh you kind of just have to do it, you know. There's different requirements, different rules in different countries. We have to have different entities in different countries. Uh there's different payment methods in different countries. You have to change the language on the site to different countries. And you can use AI to translate, but you're going to miss all the the local slang and lingo. And uh we therefore have to have people manually go translate all the different parts of the site. So I mean there's there's a lot huge checklist of items that we have to basically follow if we want to enter a new market. Um and it's a pain in the ass, but we have to do it and we're doing it. So uh that's that's how >> So you've hired like people in many different region. >> Um we have hired people in many different regions. That's right. Um and uh we we have an awesome team that is uh focusing on expansion and um they travel a lot. I don't know how they do it. I mean is going new country every single week and uh talking to different people in in the different regions and different business owners and looking at the types of businesses that are flourishing in Spain versus Morocco or where or Colombia or whichever country. Uh very different and it's very cool to for us to see at HQ like oh wow this this city is lighting up today. I think Greece was the highest growth country yesterday and I don't think people think about what kind of business is actually conducted in Greece versus conducted in the USA but it's very different. So I uh uh it's really fun to see what the globe is doing uh from a business perspective. >> And from a playbook perspective like do you run the same playbook uh in every country that you want to open or how is that structured? If the playbook is just saying, "Hey, let's try to grow is as fast as humanly possible on board the best businesses, then that's that's the playbook." And I mean, there's not a secret sauce that we have. There's not like a magic wand that just we go to the country and and put our put our our sword in the ground and say all right businesses now on the platform where we're going talking with uh universities and uh and uh programs throughout the the cities and countries in the region the entrepreneurship club is the businesses that um that that are influential in the region and try to get them on make sure we adjust the product make sure they love it and then they tell everybody about it and it's a it's a great it's a great playbook. So that that's that's our playbook. >> Okay. And what would you say is like your number one acquisition channel right now? >> Uh number one acquisition channel. Well, I mean we have probably like 50,000 user signups a day and those are not or acquired. Yeah. Right. Because I mean there's so many people that are that are trying to uh either work with businesses on our platform or buy things from businesses on our platform. Um, so the best way that we we grow is uh making sure that we're doing a good job for the business on our platform and they tell their friends, they on board the users and it's a it's an awesome acquisition channel. >> So if I understood correctly, like whenever someone's buying from a business that's on Whoop, they would understand that they're using Whoop or >> Yeah, that's right. Um, we we um I mean a lot of people want us to be a widele product, but uh we're not. And I think that it's important to us that we're building a network and um building a platform that is uh beyond just some basic SAS that you can do with AI now. So is it that's not our our um our goal and uh you do know you're on WO and and um we we have a lot of embedded components, right? So you can embed chat, you can embed uh checkout, you can embed wallets on on your own website, your own mobile app. But um it it's it's people complain a lot about the lack of customization on the branding and I mean we're not really changing that. So that's that's people maybe always know their I actually I mean yeah I don't know I think people do know they should know they uh we don't let the customization happen on purpose. >> And is it like uh something that you're tracking like uh the amount of people using Whoop and the correlation with the signup? So typically I was talking with the founder of intercom like this and for them you know like having this powered by intercom or you know what was with hotmail back in the days or these kind of things drove them like a huge amount of customers and they can actually tie the growth with new customer versus the amount that it it brings. Is that something you're tracking also or >> Yes. Uh totally on average each business brings about 10 to 20 users with them and uh we have powered by on and bottom of every single component and you know our site gets mill tens of millions of hits a month now. Um and that is definitely because of of uh the lack of desire. People have been asking hey can we can you guys sell us domains? We want to host our stuff on domain but it's like then go build your own website. Like that's not what we offer. So uh and then we did the embedded components because we we we recognize the importance of having your own iOS app or your own website uh but the components are are all connected. So if you're chatting uh with somebody on one of these platforms and then you go back to to then uh it's all going to be the chats from all the different platforms you've you've been interfacing with. And uh we think that the internet economy is very connected. So, if you're going to be um if you're going to be earning money on one platform, do you really want to re onboard yourself and have to fill in all your details again when you go to the next one? Definitely not. So, uh yeah, it's a it's a frequent topic. >> A lot of people actually have tried, you know, with the the faster checkout like to uh to make it work. I think there were a company called Fast. Not sure if you remember them. >> I do remember them. >> Yeah. So, is it something you're trying to push also? So when someone has entered like all their details on the Woo platform and they come back, all the details can be entered like a lot faster like with a oneclick checkout or something like this. We have that now and um it's awesome. You can you can pay with uh store store pay methods. If you make money on the platform, you can use that to pay. It's uh it's awesome. And I'm guessing like uh cuz I was talking with with um the CRO Anto at Revolute and um essentially like what he was telling me is because they have like a credit card payments and also like uh the platform essentially when you make a transaction and you you have both the credit card and the platform the the fee is equal to zero. >> Yes. So on your case, I'm assuming it's similar if it's like a Whoop customer who basically got money and they they build their business and they want to buy something on the Whoop ecosystem, the the transaction will cost zero. Is that correct? >> That is correct. >> That's nice. It's nice. Yeah. Yeah. It's a it's a great thing because I mean who wants to Nobody wants everything to be cost a little bit more. Everyone saves money uh both the buyer and the seller. >> What do you feel is like your mood? Um we we try to make sure that the I mean we no people consumers and businesses and people now like they they want things fast, easy and cheap and if if things can remain that way then you'll you'll build a long-term business. I I think that the the idea of like I mean you know the for a while there was you could have you could build a really strong moat by locking people into this locking people into that but I I don't think that's a negative way to look at it versus saying how can we make this existing users life easier and we can do that by looking at what they do today and figure out the pain points and a lot of times it involves those users having to go to other platforms. So when we see that, we try to bring in the functionality that they're missing to the platform and that makes their life easier cuz who nobody wants to use more than one platform to accomplish the same thing. And I think over time our remote is is is very much that. So we have everything in one place and uh you really don't need to to juggle multiple platforms at one time. >> Nice. Yeah, I think the the platform play is literally like the best because you want to have the the whole ecosystem. Um, building up on that, one of the challenges we faced at some point for us whenever we want to kind of like build our platform was either we build it oursel or we acquire companies. So we've acquired like a few companies. Is that something you look at also like do you ask yourself should we buy or build it? because I'm assuming like you're we're in New York companies working really well but uh talent is also like a scarce asset and someone who's built something in a great way can be a great addition. So is it something you've already considered or you want to keep everything in house? >> Yeah. Uh 70% of our team had former businesses before they joined W. So, we make a lot of acquisitions and um we don't always announce them, but I think the last one we announced was a uh fraud fighting company that um had raised venture money and the people behind it are very smart and they've done the same thing before. They're very high agency. They they're uh uh former founders, you know, so that's the most talented people. Um so, we uh we do make acquisitions and um it's a great way for like you said, first and foremost talent. the most talented people are high agency. They're obsessed with what they do. They're super curious and um oftentimes, not always, but but um you're going to find those in teams that have built zero one products, especially on the engineering and um and design front. >> How do you make sure they stay for the long run? I think you got to make sure that they're having a uh I think like people don't want to waste their time and um when people feel like they're working on things that are impactful and they're learning and they don't want to uh completely hurt themselves and they're spending all the time with people on the team. Um then why would somebody want to leave? I think it's like uh if if that if those are all true then um why would I what's like what else can you do? And that's kind of what life is all about. It's like let's let's uh we have a shirt says build building cool he's building cool with your friends and it's like what more could you could you want? Um so and I think monetarily I mean everyone on our team I'd say is is um compensated very well has equity in the business for the long run and um I think any any outcome that we want to go for is going to make everybody very wealthy too. So, I I I uh I'd say whether or not people on our team are looking for to make a lot of money, to learn a lot of things, to work with awesome people that are funny and cool and culturally tapped in. Um or I don't know how what other people what else can you want. I think there's something here for them. Um some people on our team have have already made probably $100 million liquid cash and they still love it. And uh I think uh I think that's goes to say it's like it's definitely not about the money purely and um you got to you got to make sure you're keeping things interesting for everyone. Nice. I like uh I like that idea. I think it's uh it's always a struggle to find like the the right the right upside with uh with people. But as you said like if the project is interesting and people are learning I think they >> Yeah. Yeah. And I think I think also a lot of it is like if I'm if if me and uh if if people on our team that um were here from the beginning are kind of like checked out and we're going on long vacations and kind of just chilling, kicked back, not in the office ever, don't really respond to messages, then why would anybody care? And I think the more that we're in the fight and um I I believe that the the early team is very um still extremely excited, if not more excited than ever, and thinks that we're actually feel smaller for some reason now that we did four four years ago. Um I think that's a very good sign that uh the the rest of the group is going to get uh have that energy rub off on them and and it's very important to not check out. >> I agree. You you mentioned like uh the word like fighting. >> Yeah. >> Uh who are you fighting against? >> Um there's uh we're there's battles fought every single day with um each other with uh other companies who are fighting with the same customers um with partners who who want different terms. I mean there's uh there's um regulatory bodies that we have to explain things to and make sure that uh they're on the same page. I wouldn't say it's fighting I think is a is a um probably like a more extreme word. It's much more in spirit of uh trying to find the truth and make sure that we're building the best thing for the world. And I think there's a lot of passion that has to be there if you want to fight. Um, so that I use the word fight probably a little bit a little bit loosely, but it's it's more out of passion and love to try to find the truth and find the best outcome um than anything else. >> And you don't need a a villain to uh to find motivation. >> You don't need a villain. >> Yeah. >> I've tried to I I don't like to look at like I try to be very focused on ourselves and what we can control. And when there's other people, other platforms, other other anybody, it's like let's do the best we can and focus on our own product and focus on our own customers and focus on our own way we build the business. And um it's a lot more uh if you have a high bar for all of that, it is a lot more uh impactful to to not get caught up in things you don't control. Because what are we going to sit here and complain about a competitor all day? Like that's just such a waste of time. And um there's way more things to be done. Like let's go build a thing that we're selling to people. How about that? And how about we stop talking about this other random project that what are we going to what do you want to do with them? We're not going to have nothing to do. I think I think there's like a you know there's like some people that I think have have uh will go online and and um and I've seen people like pay people to say bad things about other platforms and that that's just that's that's like kind of crazy. Um so yeah I just don't think there's much value in focusing on things that are out of your control. And how do you balance uh obviously like focusing on your road map what you want to build but also you know like I don't believe that ideas are like unique and that's why you know all over the world the same project are being built more or less at the same time by different people with zero connection because I think ideas belong you know two eras to uh society etc. So how do you balance the fact that you need to focus on what you're building and of course your road map but also that sometimes other people and it can be competitors or adjacencies can have like really good you know ideas that will actually modify your road map. So how do you balance the two? I love that question. Honestly, that's one of the best questions and the best way to look at it I've heard. Like ideas belong to the culture and ideas belong to the time um and the society. And if if it wasn't us who came up with an idea and likely someone else would. I think that the idea is one thing, but how the idea is actually executed is a little bit different. And the idea of letting people start businesses online is not new. even letting people pay each other and accept payments is is not new whatsoever. Um but how it's implemented and how it's executed. Uh and as you said the people that are behind that is the differentiator and there are thousands of platforms that that do directionally the same idea. But um how many platforms are going to uh leave a really creative cultural taste in people's mouth when they use it? And I mean when you go to our site and you click the buttons there's sounds, you know, and like there's really cool colors. And our marketing videos are uh exciting to watch. and um we are playful with our brand and uh where we try to have fun with a lot of it and not build a a really sterile company. So I think I think it's much more uh differentiated in the execution than the idea and um for us like I said we know people are going to be building the same stuff. We know that there's nothing always crazy about about anything that's really built. I mean, even every time frame has all these cool inventions and yeah, they would have eventually been done, but it's it's the execution details that that make it fun and keep it interesting and I think give us perhaps more intention than other platforms with the same exact idea. >> Yeah, I agree. I think like execution is uh is basically like the the whole difference and as you mentioned like branding and I'm assuming like you've put a lot of your personality also in the in the branding. You know, >> I uh we I think one thing that's been difficult as we've scaled is keeping the brand consistent to the level that we want it to be. I think as we've had more people touch the brand, we have millions of people using our product and um millions of impressions and people posting things online, it's sometimes hard to like, hey, make sure we're using the right logo, make sure that we're talking about it in the way that we want to talk about it. Um and uh I would say that the brand that we put forward on our primary accounts is absolutely uh it does definitely um it's our culture is all over it you know so so uh yeah we like we have fun with marketing it's it's a good u outlet to express all of the the what we want people to see and feel. That's cool. And uh you mentioned briefly like AI before like how do you cuz you mentioned like okay we're going to be able to essentially build like any software with AI in a matter of like seconds. So we want to build something that's longlasting and as an impact globally like how do you see AI for your business? Do you see it as an opportunity or a threat? And how do you apprehend it within the team? Yeah, if everybody has access to AI, then it doesn't really um give anybody an advantage, right? It only advantages if you're not using it or if you're using it um favoring the people that are using it, if it's supposed to give people leverage. Um, and I think if you look at it like that, then we try to not only make sure that it is true that everyone has access to AI and make sure there's AI available in our product so that if people want to get help figuring out what to do with their business or figuring out ways they can they can make money on the internet, then they can use the AI. And then internally it's it's if you're not using AI at this point then um there's definitely uh it's probably difficult for you to to keep the pace and um manage to do so much because uh if you can if you're looking at person next to you who's writing all this code and finishing their projects really fast and you're not curious as to how they're doing that then what are you doing like I mean there's difficult uh there's not much time for those people on the team. I think uh I think that there's also like probably a lot of overuse of AI too. If you're going to if you're going to you got to you can't expect the AI to tell you what to do. You can tell the AI what to do and then have it done faster and and fill in different details. Um so I think I've seen it be used perhaps overly used maybe in in uh in some scenarios. So for us, give it to our customers. We give people unlimited budget to spend on on AI as as it's very effective for programming and um coming up with iterations for ideas that you could have um and structuring out proposals and memos and things like that. Um but when it comes to the details and when it comes to the direction, it's very critical that there's thinking applied from a human brain still at least. And have you seen like uh yes still I think still is the important part with how quickly things are evolving but have you seen like uh negative aspects of leveraging AI within the team because to your point like uh I think it's hard to balance um like we work a lot in our company I'm going to give you an example with like notion notes etc. And I think in the last yeah year we've seen basically like the amount of super long notes written mainly by AI uh just explode in the company whenever someone wants to talk about like a specific topic etc etc and do you feel sometimes some of the people are using it a little bit too much without putting you know like their their touch? >> Yes definitely. Um, some people think that they're being like crafty with this. Oh, look at this huge website I just made with all these buttons and it's crazy. It's like, oh my god, it's so impressive, right? It's like what? Like how is anybody going to use this? This is not uh Yeah, like just because you produce something doesn't mean it's actually good. Um, and definitely doesn't mean it's useful. So, I think the AI can fool people that there's being that there's work being done even though it's not particularly uh helpful work being done. >> Okay. And right now, like what would you say is the the project that excites you the most for the coming uh year? >> Um I think all of the clipping and content rewards stuff that we we've done which is basically if you're not ready to start a business uh then what can you do to make money is is a huge question and um most people in the world are not going to be ready to start a business. So solving that problem is very energizing for me. We have discovered a few ways that um people can do things that are creative to the businesses that um that are paying a lot of users to do something and we have some things coming out over the next few months that I'm very very excited about on that front um which is going to be I think like nothing else that exists on the market. Of course, there's the payments piece. There's the there's the wallet infrastructure piece. There's um ability to to get new customers via ads and things like that in our platform. But those those are it's more that those are done um in the same uh setting and under the same roof. But I think where uh we're going to make it possible for truly the the single person business owner to make a billion dollars without any other team members will be when we release a lot of the the the stuff that enables a huge army of people to uh do decentralized labor and that's what I'm most excited about. >> And can you elaborate on this like the clipping part that you mentioned? >> Yeah. So businesses can can um enable their users to uh make content for them right now. And um that's pretty powerful because you get uh a lot of people making posts about you on social media and uh sending you videos and you get to hear how people are talking about the brand. You meet the users where they are on their feeds and um you you gain the the trust and um and uh uh authority from so many different people versus you just running an ad. >> And how does that work? like uh people go to our businesses on our platform can just make a campaign and uh and uh people find it and they they post about it. So it's >> so it's like I want to have like let's say tons of video review for a product service or whatever and I'm going to pay people to do it or how exactly does that >> um yeah but you can't pay people to leave a fivestar review >> of course >> but uh but u essentially you can uh describe the videos and content that you want made and uh budget and price that you're willing to pay per instance of successful completion And people can go crazy. >> Nice. Because basically like your assumption is that anyone has a phone with a camera and can essentially like record something and make money out of it. That's right. Yeah, that's really cool. Yeah, I like it. And do you have like uh any other verticals like this that you could imagine to scale the business linking the customers and the businesses? >> We have a lot. Um I there's there's some that are like publicly available I can talk about. I mean, data labeling is is very popular, although I don't think it's particularly fun work that anybody is like, "Oh, I can't wait to go and decide if this is a a uh thank you." Yeah. A hot dog or a not hot dog. Um uh but that that is a very real real um valuable thing people can do and we want to make the the ideas a lot more fun than that. Um while still being helpful and and valuable monetarily for the businesses. So, um I won't say much yet, but we have some really cool stuff coming out on this front. [clears throat] >> Nice. Good teasing. And uh what would you say like are the the coolest customer stories you've had in the last uh five or six years like building? I think the last over the last five years, I think the most uh exciting stories I've heard are from people that didn't have a good setup and then they now have a very awesome life because of what we've built. Um those are usually I mean I remember we we used to do this event here in the office that rewarded people that crossed their first um $500 in uh in if they got it in seven days. So if they signed up and then made $500, we invited them to the office. And during that period, I remember hearing stories from people that were they were on the job construction workers making seven $8 an hour in in in uh Alabama and um they started a business on their phone and now they make 180k a month. And I think that these are like the craziest stuff ever. And I mean the the things that they what are they doing? Yeah, they're doing they're they're running private communities on some some niche that's really popular. Um, but I I think like usually when you look at the the first type of business people can start, it's often going to be a digital business. You're not going to necessarily be that guy's not going to be fulfilling jewelry on his first day. Um, but uh the the how much spectrum of niches that there are on that front is super inspiring and just seeing how many uh things people can do. We have nurses that make money on the platform. Um, there are people that are gamers that make a lot of money on their platform. You have obviously all of your services businesses, your tax consultants, your marketing agencies, your email agencies. Um, and uh, those were not as clear how to start before. I think we we have a great flow to go and get those things off the ground. Um, and uh, it's it's less actually about the business model that is I think particularly exciting. I mean, nothing's that revolutionary about launching a services business or launching even a physical product business or a content business. Those things have always been available. But what's what's to answer your question, what's more exciting is just looking at the people who are now doing that stuff. It's very very cool. And um as all the traditional opportunities fade, I think it's it's going to keep keep uh going where you have more and more interesting people that previously would have been unheard of to start their own business and make a huge amount of money uh doing something that they love. Sounds super crazy of a concept. Um and there's uh yeah, seeing that over the last 5 years has been awesome and very inspiring. And what do you think for you is the biggest challenge to overcome from where you are right now to reach the vision you have for the company? We can't give up uh on any friend and um most of my time is spent on team building and um which people we want on the team, which culture we're trying to build and not sacrificing the principles and standards that have gotten us here as we as we grow to a bigger customer base and more team members and more outside people looking at us and giving us feedback and so on. Uh I think you have to be very careful not to um not to uh lose our our way. Um and uh challenge is I mean it's it's mostly like you kind of you're basically just eating eating glass all day in some way or the other and uh it's hard to keep doing that. So I I think we are a very ambitious group and if we wanted to to be um uh having a chill life, we can do that right now, but we don't. And uh we want to deliver on our mission. And I think um the challenge is uh just a perseverance. And as cliche as it sounds, it's kind of true. You just have to keep doing it. Can't give up. And um and that's that's like the moment where we win is we do not give up. Um but if we do, then it's it's where it's going to be done. So there's going to be this is challenges every single day. You know, there's like random stuff that I never would have thought would exist to be challenging and it's like what? Like we're dealing with this situation right now. Uh so yeah, I uh as cliche as it sounds, we must persevere and um and that's that's the challenge of any company even for our businesses that join the platform, you know, like if you're a new business owner and you're people are asking like what is the biggest challenge new businesses business owners face? It's like well they just give up and they stop working on their business. Who do you know that's a business owner that's been doing their business for two years that isn't successful? Nobody. You know, it doesn't exist. It's not like you've been hitting your head against the wall for two years trying to figure something out and then finally are like, "All right, this isn't working." And maybe a couple more weeks go by and it would have worked great. And uh that's that's like the best thing that I think is I've realized is like just keep going and you're going to have a bunch of things thrown at you, but keep keep it steady and try not to be overly uh don't let the good times tilt you and don't let the bad times tilt you and just keep it very levelhead. >> You cannot lose if you do not quit. >> This is true. And you mentioned a bit like the the change in role and you being like focused a lot more on hiring and building the team. I can feel like you're a builder like at heart. So how did you like uh feel and how do you feel transitioning you know from a role of uh building things, creating things to building a team? I mean of course it's still building but it's a bit different. Is that something like uh you enjoy or at least you're learning to enjoy or how do you feel about it? >> I am definitely learning to enjoy it. It's actually really addicting sometimes. I mean, I think that the only difference is that the feedback loop is a little bit slower and that's the most difficult part of it. So, if you're building something yourself and you're just typing your code, blah blah blah, you can see the thing rendering on the right side of your screen and it's that is like the most addicting feeling ever because you change something, it's like, "Wow, this feels great." Um, but if you're trying to bring somebody on the team, it might take like three weeks and you're like, "Oh my gosh, I just talked to this person. I really like them. I'm like, but the next step isn't until a week from now. And you have like 30 of those threads running at every given time. And that is the challenge. That being said, I think there's a lot of other work that needs to be done in the meantime that I'm learning quickly uh and finding a lot of joy in. So I think it of it very much still as building and just not building a a literal product for customers, building our organization that builds products for customers. And I think if you do look at it with a builder's mindset, then uh I think it's still pretty addicting and it does feel like I'm building. It doesn't feel like um I'm whatever the opposite of building is. Uh so I I believe it's still very much building. >> And what are like some pract practical tips you could give to uh someone like young building an ambitious company to to hire like the the most talented people >> to for specifically building a company to hire the most talented people? You know, I honestly like I think it's less about hiring and more about culture. There's a somebody told me the other day, he says, "Culture is existential and talent is excellent." And that means you're going to attract the right talent if you're focusing on yourself and the product that you're building and all of the the other stuff will come naturally. And the second you're like, if you if you wanted to start a company tomorrow and your first thought is to try to hire somebody, you've you're in another you've completely missed the point of of starting a company. Um, so my advice would be to almost not focus on that at all and and and if it doesn't come supernaturally, then there's another bug that is in your system. You should figure that out. >> Okay? and uh >> you you reach out a bunch of people on LinkedIn, but like why would somebody want to talk to you? It's not it's it's a very um I think that the idea everyone's saying you should be spending 30% of your time recruiting. It's like okay, what does that mean? Um it's actually that you should be spending 100% of your time recruiting, but you're not doing it in a way that's like I'm recruiting right now. It's just a it's just another part of your of your mind always thinking about it. you're walking down the street and you see somebody that has a shirt on that says, "I like JavaScript." And you go up to them and say, "Yo, I like your shirt." And you start talking for 30 minutes and then the next week they're on your team. Like that's that's recruiting. And uh I think we try to do that. And I think it's it can be applied. You see some cool thing online that somebody built, it's like, "Oh, wow. That's really interesting. Let's go talk to that person." Um it's not like, "Okay, we need to recruit. Let's run this process." And I I can't stand that. So that's my advice to people that want to >> Yeah, I agree. I think it's counterproductive, you know, in the end like uh because obviously like the better your company becomes, the more wellknown your company becomes, the easier it is to attract the best talent. So make your company as successful as possible and you will attract like the right person. >> Yeah, I I agree. Um it's a it's a chicken in the egg, you know. You have to you have to um focus on making sure that it's clear why awesome people would want to work with you. And and if you figure that out, you're not even going to have a problem with the rest. >> Talking about problems, what do you think is the hardest problem you've solved building a Whoop so far? >> There's so many ways could go. Oh man, that's a good question. Uh I mean you could cut it in so many ways. You know like we have we have at any given time we have tens of thousands of people hundreds of thousands of people on our website. That's a pain in the ass to solve. You have to get the right um engineering infrastructure. You have to have a lot of scar tissue from how many times your site has crashed and eventually you kind of figure that out. Um, I think that we have a lot of reps on that and we're getting much better at that and just the reliability of platforms at at a certain scale. Um, you kind of get into this mode where if you can scale to a million people, uh, great. And then you want to scale a million to 10 million people, it's like, okay, that's another another world. And then if you want to, uh, prepare for 50 to 100 million people on on your platform, it's like, all right, brand new world. And then you're kind of good until a billion people. and then you're like, okay, you screw it again. Um, and in some ways, we think we've solved a lot of those problems that at least at our scale now. Um, I think on the uh internal cadence and rhythm, I think that we're getting a lot better at. I don't think it's solved, but I think we have a good rhythm. We have board meetings each quarter. We have all hands every Friday. We have team meetings on about product on Tuesdays. We have weekly business review on Thursdays. and we have a very good rhythm on all that. Um, I think we're getting a little bit more structure in our day-to-day and we're remain a little bit unsolved on on the level of focus and structure that I would like, but it's getting closer towards that. Um, I I think in I I'm hesitant to say like we've solved all these problems because like I I just my mind doesn't think like that. It's it's only thinking about the problems we haven't solved and uh that's a lot of my answers can can give you. Um I think we we solved like we know we know how to build a uh an environment that people want to spend a lot of time in. I think that's a a problem that is worth solving. It's very difficult to build a a successful business if people don't want to be working on the business. And if people aren't aren't having fun with each other and they're not in an environment that they want to spend time in, good luck trying to get anything accomplished, I think we've sol we've solved that. Um, and if you had like a a magic wand right now, what would be the the first problem that uh you would solve? You can only choose one. >> Uh, I would I have more I would be able to freeze freeze time in the day and um that that's what I would do with my magic wand. Um, I think that how how everyone's using their time is increasingly important as you scale because if you want to double the business today, we need to basically uh bring on $4 billion a year in in earnings, which is like that's a lot. And if we were starting out, we only need to do $4 million and that's doubling the whole business. So, the what we do with our time is is um is everything. I think magic wand we're hiring for so many awesome roles. If you can show snap fingers and have the most talented uh designers, engineers and uh partnerships people and so on, that would be fantastic as well. But I think it's magic. If it's real magic, then it's time that would be stopping. >> Okay. I know we're like almost out of time. So my final question to you is uh what would be like the the advice you would give to uh to anyone like launching a business? >> Do not give up under any circumstance. and uh and power through and uh don't get mad and tilted about all the things that are going to come up. It's it's only your fault and uh I think if you if you have that mentality then I think you'll do very well. Um but people like to blame things on whatever the world and it's like that's not a good use of time and uh people will give up. So I think if you can persevere and just look internally what can I do with my time right now? Um, and force yourself. Even if it sounds really, really hard, do the harder things. And, um, that would be my advice. >> Awesome. Love it. Love our conversation. Thanks a lot. [music] [music]
