# Why a 98% stock collapse made this fintech a $4B powerhouse - Jason Wilk [Dave]

Channel: Guillaume Moubeche (personal)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VngVZz3uEMc
Upload date: 2026-06-25

---

Every great company starts with somebody having a bone to pick with some big problem and the pain of the $34 overdrive charge on a cup of coffee. We look at your cash flow data, not your credit score, to offer you a $75 microloon. And we went from being a $5 billion company to a $50 million market cap company within a matter of 9 months. Today on Billions, I'm sitting down with Taan Wilk, four-time founder and the CEO who took a 98% stock collapse and turned it into one of the greatest comeback history in fintech. His first company, Gold Club for a dorm room. His second, a naptech playout of white combinators that sold for $85 million. He used that money to start a war against one of the most predatory fees in American banking. The $38 over trap charge that quietly bleeds $30 billion a year from the people who can least afford it. He called his company Dave as in David versus Golth. Jason, welcome to Billions. >> Thanks so much. >> Can you maybe like explain to people why you decided to start Dave in the first place? >> Personal painoint. I think every great company starts with somebody having a bone to pick with some big problem. And for me, that was going through high school, college, starting my first business, and the pain of the $34 overdraft charge on a cup of coffee or a tank of gas was just incredibly punitive in a time in your life where you need every penny counts to to make it through. And I knew if I had that problem, there were lots of other people that might be having the same issue. And it turns out it's over half the country is dealing with things like overdraft fees, not having enough credit score to afford mainstream credit products and ultimately just the banking system is too expensive for the everyday American. >> So how do you attack such problem? Because you know it looks like a banking system is huge like how do you get started with it like how do you create your new bank? I think the way we started actually led to a lot of our success in the sense that I knew we always wanted to offer a full suite of banking services, but to offer that back in 2016, there was it would have been a tremendous amount of work to either get a bank charter or go through the bank partner process. At the time that that Dave was launching, there had been several NEO banks around previously that had not really seen a lot of traction. And so I had in the back of my mind that people's excitedness to open up a checking account was really not there, but their pain point around short-term credit was. And so we decided to start with that part of the spectrum first. And so a company launched in 2015 called Plaid, which was the conduit between FinTech and large banks. And there was only one interesting company that was using the service that I had seen so far, which was a business called Acorns, which was connecting to your primary checking account, looking at your transactions and rounding up your purchases to put into the stock market. I said, "Yeah, that's really interesting. If we could use that same cash flow data to underwrite people for effectively a microloan in the US, that should eradicate the need for traditional overdraft. And so Dave's first product was a app where you connect your checking account. We look at your cash flow data, not your credit score to offer you a $75 microloan, smallest mode in the country. And this model had worked in places like India and Africa where micro lending was a real thing, but no one had really tried it in America as a way to solve sort of short-term gaps. And the real vision there was that short-term credit of this small dollar amount, FICO is an irrelevant score because that's based on long duration credit, your ability to pay a mortgage or an auto loan. And we've really proven out that your cash flow data in your account is very, very valuable. And I knew that to be true because I always knew my paycheck was coming in. I was a great customer for my bank, but why charge me such a high rate when they know that I'm good for for the money? And so that was really the foundation of the business. Start with the credit, migrate to banking later and we really followed along that journey. We didn't launch banking really until 2021 where people could make Dave their primary account and should they choose. >> And can you maybe like walk us through the equity story? Like did you have to raise fund in the early days? Like were your investors like was it easy? >> The seed round was fairly easy because I utilized most my investors from my previous company. One of our investors I had a a deal with that whatever they made in the previous company, they would automatically write me a check to the next company sight unseen for 50% of whatever their profit was. So that check was was real easy. >> It turned out really great for that guy because he never would have written that large of a seed check usually and it's I think that stake's worth over $150 million now. So he's done uh done quite well. And then two of my other lead investors from Last Business also participated. We rounded out the the group with Ron Conway and as SV Angel among some other people in the seed round, but that was a $3 million round which we used basically to buy the domain name, give us some capital to hire the early team and also we needed some principal capital to actually lend out to users because we didn't at that point had no credibility with private credit and certainly no bank was going to be willing to lend us money with no experience. And uh the the second round like how exactly did it go? Like uh did did you feel like you had to to work a lot harder or like uh the second round was really difficult because we clearly had product market fit. Customers were loving the product. We were scaling. Our CAC was really low, but our loss rates were really high. They were like 20%. And so it wasn't quite clear that the this customer profile that we were underwriting was going to be able to be able to lend to profitably. And so we had that going against us. And also every venture capitalist at least that I spoke to had never really even heard of overj fees. So they didn't recognize it as a major problem. And the third was that neo banks historically had not gained a ton of traction. The most successful exit thus far was, I think, Bank Simple, which sold, I think, for $150 million. So, you know, not great comps, not great loss rates. Problem that investors don't really understand. And it took me about 120 meetings to get the series A done. And ultimately, it was with an investor that wasn't even in writing checks into fintech. It was just a connection with one of our board members who said, "Trust me, it's a smart team. Jason's hardworking. You know, he'll figure it out." as he always does. And so that really was the catalyst of getting the check there. We had a tremendous performance from that $10 million check. We got loss rates down to a few percent. We were scaling users. We got to think close to a million users in a in a first couple of years. And we didn't raise our next round of funding until we reached a billion dollar valuation in 2019. And that was a big deal because, you know, there weren't that many unicorn businesses back then. We weren't in a hurry for for raising more capital and so we could be more patient. But the traction we had at that point was sort of irrefutable at that at that point in time. And so raising the round was a little bit more competitive. And we brought on a great investor, Norwest Venture Partners, who led that round entirely. And that $50 million equity check lasted us all the way to the IPO. So it's incredibly capital efficient. I think around 63 million of total primary capital raised and the yeah the next round was our our public transaction. >> How exactly do you like prepare for an IPO and when do you decide like if you're ready or not? >> Well, we were really quick towards an IPO more so more so than most. I think as of January next year we'll have been a public company longer than being a private company which is really interesting. So, it's almost like we've forgotten life as a private business and don't miss it that much and be honest. We we like the rigor of the quarterly reporting. We sort of got ourselves in this quarterly reporting mindset leading up to the the IPO. And fortunately, what gave us a lot of confidence is our business is very forecastable. You we can we have a lot of cohorts that have been with us for a long amount of time. We have a very heavy repeat users and we want like we thought the business was ready even though we were early on to become a public company as of January we've been a public company longer than being a private company and don't really miss it that much because our business is is very a lot of repeat customers and so we feel like we can forecast the business really really well I think that's the key for a public company and investors want to be able to build models they can rely on and given we have 98% of our customers every month are our repeat users We just felt very confidence, a lot of confidence in the in the core model. So, aside from that, just building up the management team, getting the public board ready, and then going on the the road show process to find our our lead investors does not too dissimilar from a a private capital raise other than you have to convince 50 people to validate your valuation as opposed to one. And I think that's a major difference in public versus private. It's just your valuation in public is more consensus versus private is literally can be just the opinion of one person. >> And how long did it take you from uh okay, I think we should IPO to let's ring the bell like uh what was the the timeline? >> Well, the market was ripe for IPOs. You know, we actually were marching our way there. We thought we had a a great opportunity to go public. decided to wait a little longer to see how the the market was going to gonna continue to to play out and ultimately decided to go public in January 2022. The market looked a little soft when we went out, but we had a great IPO. I think we were the best performing stock of the of the first couple months when we went out. Valuation got to over 5 billion and then the market fell apart. the interest rates went up which led to fintech being a bad name, anything being in lending being a bad name and then with growth capital effectively coming to a halt, if you were a company that was losing money with the expectation you had to possibly raise some more, people just underwrote your valuation effectively to zero. And we went from being a $5 billion company to a $50 million market cap company within a matter of nine months. and we were trading for less than our cash value for a good amount of time. It was a really challenging place to be. But ultimately, we loved our business. We knew that all we had to do was grow our way out of this, which was not a really a great narrative at the time. But our plan was to keep burning capital until we could actually cross the user threshold required for us to reach profitability. And to us as an already mean business, that was really our only pathway to success because we couldn't cut our way there. Like most businesses could do that. We were a very mean team. We're still a very lean team with only 300 people at the company today. Actually, a little bit less than that. And um just we kept our heads down and got there. And here we are today nearly $4 billion market cap. And um yeah, teams team's happy, investors seem to be pretty happy. And we think there's a lot of room to run from here. >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I've looked at the the stock. I think it's uh it's quite insane to see like the the growth you guys are doing. So, congrats. And I'm I'm actually like curious to understand like um when your stock start like tanking like how exactly does that affect the company from dayto-day operation because you still have your customers, you still have like I mean you're still generating cash is just basically like a valuation that the public market is giving. But does that affect you like uh from a day-to-day basis like in in like bad ways or >> Well, the only way it would really affect us is if we needed to raise capital, we were dead in the water. I mean, imagine trying to raise $50 million when your valuation 50 million. That wouldn't be a really great place to be. And so, fortunately for us, we didn't need more capital. We knew we didn't need more capital, but that would have been a really tough place to sit, you know, should we needed that. Well, look, taking a step back, you want to be a public company because you have public currency you can give away to employees for valuable stock options. You want currency for M&A and then you want the ability to tap was what is what is an easier way to raise equity capital. And the challenge we have being a public company with such a low market cap, you can't take advantage of any of those things. that really was like a waste of time and money. Cost at least a couple years ago close to $10 million just to maintain being a public company. And so you want to have those benefits otherwise there's not really much of a of a point. >> And um from like uh from your side like because when the when the valuation of the company is like at a certain like is getting like lower and lower. Does does it um does it make the company like a target for uh acquisition potentially or like you know because if you see a company that's actually like valuable and you see like their stock going their stock price going down you might want to acquire it you know at a much lower price like is it something that uh you know when we talk about hostile IPO or this kind of thing like >> I'd say that's the one you know big benefit from going public was it the my shareholders gave me the that a different share class and so my stock converted into you know controlling vote which when you have that it keeps a lot of the activist shareholders away or any hostile takeovers it would have been very easy to build a position in our company and you know try and acquire it but the fact that I had the ability to approve any M&A through my control vote kept a lot of people you know on the sidelines and so that was a a big benefit of of going public and you know would recommend that for other founders who are going out, you know, it's is in many ways in the best interest of the company. >> That's super interesting. And uh I think like Tiger at some point was uh was part of the the one you know like uh helping you to go public and investing in when when you started the IPO. But usually these investors they have some sort of like lockup period and they have to kind of like keep their shares for a long time. >> That's right. And in their case, I think they decided to sell at some point like can you explain a bit like how does this work and how can an investor who was a local period is actually like able to do these kind of things. >> Yeah. So generally you have your your private investors leading up to an IPO all agree to a sort of a standstill mockup provision generally 6 months but the investors through the IP IPO process do not have any sort of standstill at least through the the process we want to go public and so Tiger and others were free to sell from day one that didn't help us because you know Tiger had their own issues through April with a lot of people redeeming in our fund due to the market crashing. And so it was nothing against our business independently, but they just sold everything that was in growth and to lose your anchor investor that quickly prior to a mockup when your valuation still has a lot of value appreciation from early people, which also put selling pressure on. It just led to sort of perfect storm of disaster for us. And fortunately for us, it was had nothing to do with our business. that from a just timing market landscape perspective, we were in the worst of every storm. >> And and as a company was uh when it was at the very bottom and you knew that he has like tremendous potential as a founder like did you uh acquire more shares at that time or like did you I mean is there a way you know like to benefit from it in some way? >> Yeah, I mean it's hugely beneficial actually. So we we couldn't afford because the valuation was so cheap to just give people you know better stock packages at today's price but we did structure this performance stock unit structure where people actually would you know get more shares at certain prices you know all the way up to I think the stock price got as low as about $5 posts split and the neededly for a lot of our employees was that the stock could reach you know 1002 $200 worth of value and that's like 20x return. But it's amazing to see that everyone that stuck around and got those performance units have fully realized that. And we made more millionaires post IPO because of that drop than we did preo just from the amount of people that we hired and that that stuck around. >> That's insane. And for the for the IPO, I think you did like a spack. Um >> Yeah. C can you explain to people what it is and like how concretely does that work? >> Well, a spa versus traditional IPO, you are effectively merging with an existing public shell whose sole mission is to go find a company to combine with. That public shell has no operating business. They have capital that they have committed from investors to go find a target. And the benefit of going public that way is that the shell is already public and you're able to negotiate your valuation and how much capital you're going to raise through your investor syndicate well before your IPO date. Whereas in a traditional IPO, you don't really know what the value of the company is going to be until you start to build your book right before the IPO process. So, there's a lot to like about this spat and just there's a lot more certainty, especially for a young company. you you want to be able to count on the proceeds if you're going to go through the process that you you want to be sure is going to going to succeed, not fail at the end. There's a lot of IPOs that go through a testing the waters at the end and don't like what they see. So they they pull back or they wait. You've seen that before with with others. And so the big I'd say that the downfall of the spa came from the types of quality of companies that went because a lot of them went out of business. Valuations were not based in reality. So, Spaxs got kind of a bad name, but they're still a perfectly viable vehicle based on the reason I just explained. >> And why do you think it got like a bad press at some point like the Spack? Well, it's too many companies that never should have been public went public through that process. And that was just the environment of interest rates were nearly 0%. The market was super hot and the appetite for underwriting companies losing significant amounts of money with negative unit economics was, you know, at an all-time high. And so that just the challenge of all these companies that weren't great is what put pressure on this back process. had we only kept it to high quality businesses, which we believe Dave was one of them, then spaxs would still have a great name and I think it'd still be a very popular way to go public. But unfortunately, I think um you know the negative stigma is is uh is is there. >> And what was your uh revenue like whenever you you did your like Spark IPO? I want to say it was around a couple hundred million of a run rate at the time of the IPO and I believe in 2022 we burned a h 100red million. We raised 210 of total proceeds. We had a decent amount of capital left. But if you were to just take a run rate of our burn rate at the peak, you could see why some investors would say this company is not going to actually, you know, make it through to the end. But you know, we always knew that there was this pretty clear line. And once we started to get clear towards that line and could really clearly communicate to investors that once we reached 2.1 million paying members, every incremental user was going to be contributing to profitability because we don't need a bigger team to grow the user base by, you know, the next 100,000 200,000 members. And now it's just amazing to see. I mean, our guidance for 2026 is over 700 million of revenue at the midpoint and over 300 million of of Ebatons. That's just a $400 million swing on earnings in just a few short years. And the investors that believed in us have made just tremendous amounts of of return. >> And how do you like uh plan for it as a funer? because we see a lot of people, you know, raising like a lot of money and saying like, "Hey, we're going to reach that point where, you know, like uh things become like profitable and we have a great business." Like, I mean, you hear this story a lot. The truth is like very few people managed to do it. So, how exactly did you plan for it and how did you manage to uh to really succeed? >> Plan for what spec specifically? playing like planning for like the the profitability like points that you would get to. >> Well, I think we knew what we needed to build our our platform that could scale and to us that was the 300 people we needed to to build the core systems. It would be hard to think we could do that with significantly less people than that. And so we sort of drew our line in the sand that this is the amount of people we have. We we did a hiring freeze. We didn't do any any layoffs. We just said here's we're going to keep it steady here that only do backfills of people that leave and just really kept our heads down, avoided all distractions. Any new products that weren't core to achieving profitability went on the back burner and a lot of our our work went around just margin improvement, renegotiating contracts, adding more users, driving more CAC efficiencies, improving onboarding conversion and underwriting efficacy. And it was just a real big push across the company to turn profitable. I even got my CFO a hat that says EPIDA on it for his birthday. And he was, you know, really driven. Kudos to him because he was really the driver of all the, you know, profitability initiatives within the company. And we we succeeded I think even more so than we could have expected at this time four years ago. And as a company like and as a co you know like whenever you raise fund and you're like nonprofitable and you're spending a lot on I don't know like hiring on acquisition on all of these things like the vibe in the company is a bit different versus when you're bootstrapped and you're looking at like uh how much you should spend. So you're always like profitable and for you like you also went from okay we have money we spend it to we're profit like we're profitable and we need to stay profitable. So how exactly did the the company like culture kind of change uh with that change? Well, it's it's tough depending on what stage of the business you you are at. You know, I'd say we, you know, in our later, you know, potential later rounds, the fact that we were a profitably growing company mean meant that we didn't need to raise more capital, but also had we raised a lot more, we probably could have grown quite a bit faster. And so to attract some of the best and biggest venture capital investors in the world, they like seeing the heavy burn, right? because they want to put more capital to work. And so we we lost out on a couple funding rounds of competitors who were burning three or four times as much as we were to chase user growth faster. But ultimately that wasn't the kind of business we wanted to run. We had really healthy growth while maintaining profitability early on. We took the business to running at a loss to to build the platform of which we believe was needed to build for the long term. But it's really a matter of preface on the founder. you know, do you want to raise a lot of capital and raise a bunch of prep? I never like sitting behind a lot of Pre personally because it just becomes a dangerous game of having to clear that pre stack in an M&A transaction could be quite challenging. We still see a lot of our smaller competitors who thought they were worth a billion dollars, they raised several hundred million of venture capital and it becomes a a curse in the end. And so I think for businesses that really need it like these AI hyperscalers, there's no other choice. But I say for some founders, you got to really look at this VC money you're raising is is like very high APR debt. You know, I think about the effective APR we paid our series A investor. You know, it's worse than any Lone Shark in the world. when you really take a step back. I mean, if I had that much confidence in the business that early on, I wish I did that $10 million round as as venture debt in the business, not giving away very valuable equity in the company, which is worth, you know, so much now. >> And what's like would you say is the the biggest challenges for you like in the in the coming years? >> Uh biggest challenge for us, you know, we are becoming uh a multi-product company. We just announced our our new credit card. We're excited to to scale that and you know it's always ever easy for companies to build multiple you know go to market leading business business units and uh we're just really excited about that as the future of the company and I think that's our maybe biggest challenge is you know proving out our ability to have both of things working at scale >> and on your side like uh how do you decide like to launch a new product when you have something that's already working already growing is it because you want to get like uh more growth? Is it because you want to get better retention? Is it a bit of both? Like well one it just comes back to what are our customers want and we have the benefit of having millions of customers we can talk to them and going back to my days at Y Combinator that the number one lesson from Paul Graham was always to talk to users and we do that all the time through user research. Really important to understand what they want. We also have the benefit of having a connection to our customers primary checking account. And so we can actually see all the products that they're using. And so that's amazing market intelligence for us to go decide what else we need to be doing. But in the end, yeah, it's, you know, building customer happiness. And if we do well there, that's going to lead to better lifetime value through, you know, either more Harpo or better better retention or both. And that's sort of the name of the game. And is it like uh like how exactly do you do you decide like about a new product? I know like you're going to talk to customers etc. But why did you choose a new credit card and not something else? We wanted to lean in on where we thought our differentiation was versus our scale neo bank competitors and to us that is our AI based underwriting of cash flow information. and it was working incredibly well for our extra cash product which is giving people up to $500 between paychecks. The beauty of that product is the payback is very short. The downside is that the customers willingness to use that for multiple different purchases is is quite low. You tend to use our core product for gas, grocery, and rent. All sort of non-discretionary expenses. But we aspire and we could see through the cash flow data that our customers are using things like BNPL and Sunprime credit card for discretionary purchases of which we had 0% market share. And so when I think about areas where we think we have the right to win, you know, our customers love us for credit, we think we can expand the credit and giving them a different use case of how to use the company made a lot of sense. And so it felt very clear to us as to what to build. We just had to go back to sort of the core principles of the business of what we want to disrupt. And it is these expensive fee streams from banks and credit card companies. And just like overdraft fees are really hurting Americans, revolving credit card APRs and credit card late fees are over a hundred billion a year. And so I like the idea of eating other people's margin through better products. And we're going to do the exact same thing with this product. >> Yeah. and you have already like the the user base and you know like they so so it's whenever you deploy like you know you're going to have like a a large addressable market from the start so it's uh it's quite smart and um I was wondering because earlier you mentioned you know that the interest rates uh started to to kind of change and it affected like uh your uh your company so how exactly do you plan because you're essentially offering like short-term loans so obviously you're a bit dependent on the macroeconomics. So, how exactly do you plan on things that are a bit outside of your control? >> That's hard because the the market just tends to swing naturally from things that are out of your control every day. You know, things like the war impact the stock even though that should actually be a tailwind for business because things getting more expensive, more people turn to our products. But it's hard, you know, when in a world where the stock market is largely traded automatically at this point, it's nearly impossible to avoid being, you know, pulled by the by the macro. With respect respect to interest rates though, you know, because our capital turns over so quickly, even with our new credit card product, which is a pay and forward duration, we're not really reliant at all on private credit markets or the cost of which it takes to borrow because we're we're not taking long duration risk. And that's one of the thesis we think that investors should really pay attention to in our story is that we don't have that risk whatsoever because our average duration of credit is about eight days and >> the return profile we get on our credit transactions far exceeds >> yeah even the highest of of uh interest rates to borrow over the last uh 25 years. >> So what's what's kind of like the the default rate you try to to focus on? like what's like the the highest default rate you can go to in order to have like a business that works? >> Well, I think we just talked about our last earnings call our our gross spreads on every credit transaction are over 5%. And we return that capital every 8 to 10 days. So, you know, that's arguably our ceiling of what we could go to on credit. And if you look at our 120day loss rate at this point, it's nearly 1%. So, the spreads are there. where we've we originate millions of these micro credit transactions per per core. So it's very a lot of visibility into performance and don't expect that to erode in any kind of any kind of cycle. >> And with the new like uh AI models because you mentioned that you were leveraging AI like to uh and machine learning I assume to like kind of predict you know like uh the default of one customer. So therefore you can know like who you're going to pay uh where you can who you can loan like money. Um so how how does the new model like uh affect you know like your company? Is it like in a positive manner? Like do you see our algorithm getting better like every single month or do you see like no real impact because you already had something that was working? >> It's all incremental. I mean there's two things going on with our business. one because the duration of these our credit transactions are so short. The models merge really quickly as to what actually works in comparison to like a you know an installment lending business that's lending capital for a couple of years. So hard to use AI or cash flow data to predict performance because so many things could happen. The economy can shift. There could be changes in the customer's employment. But with such short duration credit, we're able to learn so quickly on what actually works to full maturity of the entire book. And that is so valuable. And so every time we launch a new version of our models, we're inputting another 100 or 200 features that we can test to see if it's incremental to credit and know within a matter of weeks or, you know, a few months the performance outcomes. And so it's just a really powerful place to to sit. You combine that with the fact that almost 98% of our originations per quarter are going to repeat users, we can always start to, you know, increase credit per user just by the fact we start to know our members more. So with both those dynamics happening at the same time leads to a really stellar financial performance. >> Yeah, really interesting. And on the from the the team management perspective cuz now I think you have like a team that is quite lean like with 300 people and a high valuation you know and a public company like how exactly like uh do you manage like a lean team? Uh maybe you could give like I don't know like some tips of the things that you've seen working well for retention for talent retention I mean like for helping people grow also within the company. Well, one, we focus on having a high high quality team to start. You know, some some people that really inspire others that to to want to work there. I'd say two, we have a lot of great rituals at the business. We have a a recurring quarterly business review where we bring our management team together plus key directors to go over the quarterly performance and look at what's what's ahead. We have a very rigorous weekly business review where we're going through all of our key core KPIs in the business to hold ourselves accountable there. And we work on having a very clear mission, vision, strategy that we communicate to the team to make sure everyone's sort of rowing in the same direction. And lastly, we use OKRs as well, so that there's just really a lot of clarity around what we want to build and how that maps back to the mission of the business. So, I think those that's a great foundation. The fact that we're a virtual first company as well, I think really helps, especially in fintech. We've got a great team that lives in, you know, various parts of the country. And there's a lot to like about that model. I know a lot of people are trying to go back to the office, but we feel like this is a differentiated way to recruit key talent. The people that want to be virtual first absolutely love it. And so I'm not a CEO that's, you know, out there promoting virtual first as the as the model, but companies dependent. It works well for us. >> And like what what what is changing, you know, like as an employee when you go from it's a private company to it's a public company? Like are these things you're allowed to say, not allowed to say? Like do people who work, you know, have like a a specific like agreement that states clearly like what this can say, what they cannot say? Like can you maybe like walk us through the the different changes that uh that uh the company has to undergo? >> Mostly just the sensitive information. You got to trust your team is not going to, you know, go trade on that. We have our standard quarterly blackout periods where people can't trade the stock but ultimately we you know need to have a lot of rigor around just compliance as a business being a public company. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. Super super cool. And um yeah so for you like u I mean I think now it's been a bit more than 10 years since uh you built uh Dave. How do you see like uh the future? Like do you see yourself as like a lifetime company like this is going to be your your one project and uh and yeah and continue forever or do you think that eventually in the time of a business when it's public you might want to have like a CEO join or like someone else like how do you see it? >> It's too early to tell. you know, been doing this for for 10 years at this point, which is, you know, yeah, you never know how long these how long you're going to be running these things for. I think any great company takes at least 10 years to just to get it to what is a success. I think for me, it's really hard to think about building another company and like Dave of this size and scale. I think, you know, to achieve a business that does nearly a billion dollars of of revenue, those don't come along every day. to build a really amazing team that you like to work with that's high performing. I don't really want to go back through that process of building the team again and going through all the different cycles of the types of teams you build because they're so different the early team versus the team you have at IPO and beyond. So I'm definitely not in a hurry to go start another one if anything you know maybe would become an investor or something at some point but I don't envision starting a new company and I hope I'm working at Dave for many more years to come. And how is uh your time split at the moment? Like uh how much time do you spend I don't know like on hiring managing the team like how exactly is it split? >> It depends. We're trying to hire an an executive. I'll spend a lot of time on that. I'm also you know help with hiring board members as well. So spend a lot of time thinking about the quality of our team, the quality of our board, the quality of our teams beneath our our leaders at the company. uh spend a lot of time thinking about company engagement across the board as everyone what can we do to improve the company and the management and then it depends on the time of the the quarter but host earnings I spent a lot of my time after the the print going to speak to investors go to at least a couple of conferences get on the road go speak to shareholders some new some existing and then obviously spending time with your analysts too which we have over 12 analysts so making sure they're understanding the story and the models there's um your time really shifts. You know, I'd say two three weeks post earnings, it's very outside focused. The rest of the time is the internal quarterly business review thinking about everything going on internally at the company. So, it's kind of maybe like 7030 internal versus external at this point. And can you explain maybe like uh how does that work with analyst and you know like when it's like post earning like what's going to happen like how exactly does you know like uh the the whole situation and stock price work? Well, the stock price we we can't predict, but you do have your analyst of which we catch up with afterwards and you know they both comment on the earnings call but also we have private conversations with them following and they have their key questions you know because they have each of them have built their own financial model. And so after the quarter, we sort of look at how our model compared to theirs and discuss, you know, what they got wrong, what, you know, what potentially we we got wrong or or more right than we thought. And then they go to the next quarter and they update their numbers, update their price guide. Hopefully, it's always increasing. And they update their, you know, buy, sell, overweight rating. That's tends to be how how it works with the public analyst. A lot of the buy side investors though, you know, are hedge funds or long onies. They all have their own model models too. So they'll talk to some of the bank analysts, but largely they're very reliant on the internal models that they built and the same thing. We'll catch up with them to see who got what right and they go they go from there. >> Okay. And uh yeah, I'm I'm wondering, you know, like uh whenever you have like this uh this kind of like earning calls and uh and how how exactly like u I mean you've seen in some uh in some companies where the the stock is uh is basically like moving a lot and it's not really tight to the company's performance. So we can see companies, you know, who are like still growing, still generating a lot of cash flow and getting, you know, like a very different valuation versus what their earning shows. So how exactly do you like how do you maintain, you know, like the vision and the long-term vision as like a public uh company CEO when uh you know, you you also need to think from a quartertoquarter basis like cuz I think you mentioned like structuring your board. So maybe this applies a little bit with it. >> Well, one I think you have to have a really strong core business of which you know you can really see strong growth within that and that allows you the ability to have some freedom for thinking long term about future roadmap items. Like I'll take the credit card for an example. We don't need that credit card to work for many many years to support our longer term growth algorithm. And that's thanks to having a great core business. And I would recommend you no call no company go public unless they have a lot of confidence in the forecast for their their core. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. And you mentioned you know like uh structuring your boards and potentially like having different people. So h how exactly do you structure a board like who do you look for? Um and can you maybe share like tips on how to structure like a great board? >> It really depends on on the business, right? And so for us, well, every public company needs a great person in sort of audit. That's fairly standard. That's going to be somebody who is a former CFO most likely. And we've got a great one on on our team. And then you sort of fill around the board of people you think are going to be helpful to your industry, your business. You know, one of our our private credit investors is on our board. We have u a capital markets guy who can help us understand how to talk to analysts and recruit different different new shareholders. We had a regulatory lawyer that understands all the regulatory complexities. And ultimately you want to have people that when you spend the time to get together for these quarterly board meetings of which last three to four hours want to make sure it's useful. And so people you think that you can rely on for input on strategy, make sure the company's, you know, following all the all the rules, but that's going to be added to the business, not not detracting. >> And how exactly does that work? Like do you give them shares or is it like a yearly package and uh Yeah, >> it's a yearly package. There's some equity and some and some cash. >> Okay. and and but recruitment sort of starts you either find people that you know or oftentimes people will use recruiting agencies specifically for executive board recruitment and so we we've done a little bit of both. >> Okay. And what what do you prefer like do you see hiring agency working well on on this side or >> I think it's always best to use you know internal if you can go that route but one not everyone wants to be on a public company board and two finding people with the experience you know that's not always within your network and so I found that we've had a lot of success so using recruiters for for board roles. >> Okay. Okay. Okay. And uh is it like a from like a a pure like growth perspective you mentioned earlier you know that um eventually if you had raised more cash you could have gone a little bit faster. Now you're at a stage where you're like profitable. So how exactly do you balance you know that uh speed versus sustainable growth and how do you envision the future like uh do do you want to keep you know this very lean team and growth that is you know like kind of like mastered or do you see things like in a different way? >> You know we're not trying to constrain the team to 300 just to do so. I mean we we really do believe we've built a highly scalable platform. We are adding to the team this year. We're going to go from 300 to 320 325ish. So, you know, we are doing that because we believe that the investments we're going to make there are going to, you know, lead to, you know, significant multiples of, you know, revenue once we deploy the products that they're working on. I'd say for us, you know, we we've had quarters where we've grown the business 60 plus% and have not seen our multiple expand as a public company. And so, that tells us a little bit that we're not really being rewarded for growth. So through us we we really try to communicate a very sustainable growth algorithm to grow users you know single uh mid double digits and revenue per user by by low double digits. And if you believe in the the combined effect of both of those metrics it's going to be a 30% plus growing type company for many years to come. And you know we're we're totally fine with that. And you know if the multiple trade-off is what it is that gives us an ability to launch new products of which we think can ultimately lead to multiple expansion from there when people realize that we can generate revenue from from more than just a couple units. >> I'd love to pick your brain on something. So what you're seeing is like the the high growth is not always like rewarded from public market. So from your side if you add let's say like two companies one companies that uh year one is growing let's say 10% year two they're growing 200% year three they go back to like 20% year four like it always change like this and there is another one company B that's growing let's say like 35% every single year for like five years do you think that uh company A will not get like uh uh a higher stock than company B just because it's not as predictable. >> Well, it depends because the company that grew 200%, you know, may have some insane revenue multiple. And so I know CFOs of companies like that and they tend to envy our position because we have we trade at a very modest multiple. We have every opportunity to try and do things to expand that versus they're thinking of every way they can preserve this potentially unrealistic multiple. And so I'd rather be in the more conservative world where, you know, we have a great core business growing at a rate we we feel very confident in with a model, you know, profitability and flexibility to launch new things that can get investors excited about for for future growth. >> Yeah, I agree. And uh I know we're almost running out of time, so that's going to be the the final question. Uh what what would be an advice you could give, you know, like to uh anyone who wants to uh to build a company and IPO? Well, I'd say these things take a long time. They take a lot of effort and so you really better love the idea you're working on. You know, I've seen a lot of companies that started sort of copycat businesses because it's a great place to be or, you know, interesting space, but you got to love what you do, feel like you have an edge, a reason for a right to win. And everyone we've seen that tries to have copied Dave in the past, you mostly sold our company or Flutter because the founder wasn't in it to for the mission. and they were in it just to try and capture what was, you know, the hot company idea at the moment. >> Great advice, Jason. Thanks a lot uh for being here. Where can where can people follow you and follow Dave's update? >> Uh you can follow Dave on X or on LinkedIn and you can follow me on on LinkedIn. Not not super active on on Twitter, but LinkedIn I I post post sometimes. >> Awesome. Thanks a lot, Den. Thanks so much.
