# Why focus on only ONE product built a $1B super-brand (on just $6000) - Pete Maldonado [Chomps]

Channel: Guillaume Moubeche (personal)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=rZdp-XCAOms
Upload date: 2026-07-02

---

It doesn't matter how healthy the product is going to be, if it doesn't taste good, it will not sell. I'm the guy with my foot pinned on the gas. Rashid's the guy steering. We went so deep on just a handful of products. We did one thing really, really well, and we became known for it. We're approaching a billion dollars in revenue this year. So, we don't want to go and want to be number two. We just want to do it. Last year, we undershot it by nine figures, which is a terrible feeling. >> We thought we were losing our houses and all of our own personal everything. >> Welcome to Billions. I'm sitting down with Pete Maldonado. I wanted Pete on because his story breaks pretty much every rule [music] you give you about building something big. 6,000 bucks, no investors, no food background, just a bet that the gas station meat stick could actually be good for you. Everyone say the category was dead. They ignored it. Stayed profitable for almost 10 years before taking a cent. And now, they're selling 2 million sticks a day, still majority owned by the co-founders. Pete, welcome to Billions. >> Jay, thank you for having me, man. >> Super excited to have this conversation with you. Before I start to jump, can you like talk a little bit about Frozen Fitness and what it kind of taught you about starting your business? >> Yeah, absolutely. So, I think, you know, um my background I'll start with my background, how about that? So, I was in I was in college. I was a personal trainer. And um and I was I grew up in the Hamptons, like right outside the Hamptons. And so, during the summer times, I would train my clients in the Hamptons, but they lived in Manhattan and worked in Manhattan. So, they'd meet with me on the weekends when they were at their Hamptons homes. And then, I'd work with them. I'd create these, you know, I'd put them through some workouts, create these like elaborate meal plans and grocery lists. And um I found that when they like they got them with back to Manhattan, it was really tough to get them to stick to it, right? Um and we all know like nutrition is the most important thing when you're trying to, you know, achieve any any of result when it comes to fitness and dieting. Um and mind you, this is over 20 years ago now. So, just just things have changed. So, uh back then there you know these meal delivery delivery programs didn't exist. It was like Nutrisystem, it was Jenny Craig, there was a couple like like these like and the food was terrible. Um and so and I so in my mind I was like I could create, you know, better for you meals um that are pre-portioned out and make life life easier for my clients and for myself, right? Uh so, that was the idea for it. So, Frozen Fitness was born. It was born as an idea at first and then um slowly, you know, started trying to build it up and um selling it out of gyms actually because building a website was going to be too expensive at the time. Um I think this was like early early days of WordPress and I had no idea what I was doing in terms of building. Um and then, you know, but I I I was able to get these ice cream freezers with a glass top and I was able to place that into a gym and started selling meals out of that. And so, that worked out for a couple years actually. So, I got to about like 72 different gyms selling the product from South Florida up to Atlanta. And then I was like, now it's time. I've proven the model like there's like product market fit like this is great. Now let's build the website and let's let's go right after, you know, the Nutrisystems of the world. So, I decided to raise some money and uh that's kind of where things start unraveling because I had never raised money before. Um I didn't really understand the concept of you know, you know, cash is kind of a commodity and you we want to bring smart money to the table. Um and so, I brought in some guy who was a real estate guy that was in like mobile home parks that lived here in Naples. Um he had no experience in food whatsoever and didn't know how to market or any of that stuff and didn't even we were not even aligned remotely on the vision for what I was trying to accomplish. Um but yeah, learned the hard way uh about that part. But, I think you know, I made so many mistakes with that company as well where I think it's that like that that founders conundrum like you you want everything to be completely perfect. I wanted the website to have every bell and whistle um before I brought it to market, and so I spent so much time and money and quite honestly never got to the point where I was even even able to take a single order on that website that I blew a bunch of money on. Um so in the end, you know, the company just didn't work out. He We had a falling out. He wanted his money back. The real estate market was getting obliterated down here, um and he needed his cash back. So, and I'm like, "I can't give you your cash back. It's in inventory right now in frozen food." So, I literally just handed the company over to him and and walked away from it and uh I moved from Florida up to Chicago, um and that's kind of the story of the Frozen Fitness. But yeah, that was uh >> And And when did you start like to think about Champs and uh and starting something new from that? >> Yeah, so in between there, you know, I'm a kind of a go-getter entrepre- entrepreneurial type guy. I can't stop thinking about having my hands in too many things. So, I got into real estate. Um did that for a few years. Um started with renting apartments and then got into selling, you know, big fracture condo projects to um uh hedge funds and that type of thing. So, um but I loved uh I liked doing those things. It was a means to an end for me. I I wanted to raise some capital um because I loved the the food and the nutrition business, anything to do with with fitness nutrition was like right up my alley. Um and I just needed to get back into it, and so that was the plan, but this time I was going to do it, you know, self-funded. Um I was not going to rely on outside capital. And I learned from all my previous mistakes, and so that's kind of where we started Champs On. >> And how do you start a company with just like $6,000? Like how does that work out especially like in the in the food industry? >> Really good question. I still wonder to myself I'm like nowadays like why did I even bother trying to do that? Like I think you know, it was only 14 years ago or something like that now, but times have changed you know, drastically since. But I would say what we did is we got some samples made. Um and it was a very small run and so by the way signing the co-packer was very difficult because you need to find somebody that's small enough to actually want to make you a small run of product, but also has the ability to scale with you. Um we were very fortunate to meet this co-packer that we initially started with back in the day, but I'll tell you more about that story after. But we we I start I actually got a $99 Photoshop Elements subscription and taught myself how to make some packaging. So I kept going to the store and I'd buy like different different types of packaging in other categories and I'll take little elements. So like if I had my claims for my calories and protein and whatever and like it was surrounded by a little circle. I'd figure out how to make that little circle and put that on the package. Um and then it was the same thing when it came to building the website. I started on WordPress initially. Was having a hard time with that and this is when Shopify was starting to get pretty big and so I tried I tested out Shopify and I was like, oh my god, this is so easy. Like I So I had a working website very quickly um and also inexpensively. And then this is kind of where how I know you actually is by our buddy Noah Kagan. And the way I heard about Noah was from a it was this blog post. I want to say this was in like 2009 or something like that that he wrote this with Tim Ferriss. So it was on Tim Ferriss's blog that I was following and then Noah was like the special contributor to the to the blog post. And I actually can't remember what the title of what it was, but it was essentially something to the effect of like um start a a million-dollar business over the weekend. Uh which by the way has has a kind of morphed into his book that he wrote, The Million-Dollar Weekend, right? Um so in there he was giving these tips and tricks on like how to test test the market and then find product market fit inexpensively. And I had a couple pictures. I got some some professional pictures taken of the of the actual product. I used that. I put that up on for Facebook ads. Um but we didn't even have any inventory to sell. It was like samples for handing out. And so I put I put a couple bucks I maybe it was a maybe a couple hundred dollars behind some of these Facebook ads. Cuz we we needed to see that somebody random people that have no idea who we are would actually take their wallet out and spend the money and buy the product. And it happened we got that product market fit and that that confirmation very quickly. So but then I had to reach out to those people and just be like, "Hey, sorry. We're going to launch this and we're out of inventory and would would you mind waiting?" And you know, people are very um just nice about it and patient and we kept in touch with those people. Um A lot of them are still customers of ours today. So it's like pretty awesome. >> And also like I think the you know whenever you look at food in general like people will uh are just like fighting over you know like different stores and how much shelf space they're going to get, but you went like straight to direct to consumer. Um what why did you start doing this? And also like what would you say is different versus going into stores because originally with with your former company like Frozen Fitness you you had this mindset of you know what like I'm going into each gym and I will like sell from a a gym. So it sounds like the point of sale was important in the past and now you choose like to be fully digital. So, can you explain maybe like the the reasoning and and maybe the difference? >> Yeah. Well, first and foremost, I mean we had no ability we had no cash, obviously. So, when you have no cash, you can't go to a retailer. They're going to charge you slotting fees. You're going to have to, you know, set up for trade spend. And it's usually going to be a much bigger larger order than we ever could afford at the time, right? So, that's that's like put that aside, though. One of the things I learned from from Frozen Fitness was that it was brand awareness needs to stay light-years ahead of distribution. We still we still talk about this today at our business. We still run the business the exact same way. I do not want to land on a brick-and-mortar retail store shelf and then have customers walk in and have no idea who we are, right? Um that should be the second touch point or or you know, they should already be aware of your brand. And so, for us, that's been how do we build brand awareness now before we land on those store shelves? So, that's where direct-to-consumer, social media, all of those were such a game-changer for us. Um we were doing I guess you would call it influencer marketing back before it was called influencer marketing. It was signing up with some of these like paleo bloggers and CrossFit bloggers. Um and they had large email email list. And so, we found that direct, you know, having a uh dedicated email blast going out to these currently relevant and um uh cons you know, communities, we would just see massive amounts of, you know, trial driven from that. So, you know, we might spend three, four, five thousand bucks and pay that to a blogger, have them blast it out to, you know, a hundred thousand of their followers, and then it it spits off 40, 50 50,000 of income for us. And we were like, how do we get more of these? So, it was just So, they weren't all like that. Some of them were flops. But, we were just relentless about building relationships with these people, and that's how we built the built the name and built the the early days. We were very We were profitable very quickly in the business. It was within the first 30 days we actually were able to turn a very small profit and continued reinvesting into the company from there. >> And how did you like find these influencers? Were they like blog posts you were reading or and and also like maybe walk us through the process of finding a relevant audience, you know, and and people who will actually buy? >> Yeah, that's a really good question. So, I think for us we were so niche at the time. So, grass-fed beef was becoming incredibly popular within the CrossFit audience. And then if you drill down deeper into there, most CrossFitters were paleo dieting. And then drill down even into the paleo dieters and there was like a really small community called Whole 30, which is about to huge as well. So, I think all of these small niche, I guess you call them diet tribes or fitness tribes, over time just continued building and obviously this blew up and that that gave us enough of a platform to continue building. But, for us it was niche enough where we could do it for very little cost, right? So, we were able to go in and really make a name for ourselves, own that community, and we were the meat stick for that community. And And as they grew, we were able to grow with them. And by the way, we couldn't have timed it better with all these trends, right? So, it Again, we were very early with CrossFit, early with paleo, early with Whole 30. And then the the big one after that was keto. Everybody was keto dieting. And so, the we were very fortunate that our product, because we made it as clean as we possibly could could with the best ingredients we could. And by the way, we focused on taste, taste, taste. It doesn't matter how healthy the product is going to be if it doesn't taste good, it will not sell. We understood that from day one. Um And so, that's why we've been winning. But the the great thing is that all of these diet tribes or these trending diets, um we checked the boxes for all of them, right? And we'll check the box for the next one. And we happen to be this we were like heavy protein before the protein wave kicked off. Um And then now it's like GLP-1. So, like we've we've been very fortunate to have wave after wave to fall to to really surf. And we've been we've been taking advantage of all of them. >> And like when did you start like doing different product line? Did you like just focus on one for like many years before you actually start thinking of different days, different angle, different strategies? >> Well, the the interesting thing interesting thing is to this day, we still only have one product line. So, we make meat sticks. That's all we do. So, we never dabbled in any other format of meat snacks. So, you'll see a lot of the the smaller competitors that we we've competed with, they start in jerky and then they move over to sticks. Or they do bars and stick like it's there's usually just some diversification there. Uh but the way we felt about it and especially early on was like we need to keep this business as simple as possible. And so, it was always this thought process of delete complexity every step of the way. Um that started with the product, right? And so, we just launched initially with just two beef SKUs. It was original beef and our jalapeno beef. That was it. Uh then we added a third. It was like a spicier ver- People were asking for more spicy version. So, we had like a hot habanero version that came out. And um but we were just so we were we were not trying to go wide. It was about going deep. We wanted high high volume, great you know, find a a handful of great products. And by the way, if we could have a single SKU, we would have done that. Like, especially like back then, we just wanted to keep things as simple as possible. Um and also we were building the business cuz cuz both Rashid, my my co-founder, and I, we both had full-time jobs. I was still doing the real estate. He was a operations consultant. Um he's great with the ops and finance side of things. I was more of the sales and marketing guy. So, we really complemented each other. Um but what we were doing was like, okay, how could we build this as a side hustle? So, nights and weekends we're going to work on this thing. Let's keep it as simple as possible. And that like we got so lucky cuz you never could have, you know, have the foresight to understand that like the those decisions that we made so early are the reason why we are so successful now because we went so deep on just a handful of products and we did one thing really, really well and we became known for it. And because of that, it's like that's why we're here. And now we're able to have some extensions, right? So, now we got other proteins. So, we've got, you know, we have beef, we have turkey. Um we just launched chicken about a month ago and we also have venison that we um we have a single SKU of venison. Um and even to this day we've got, I think, 12 separate recipes total. And we're approaching a billion dollars in revenue this year. So, it's uh >> Congrats. >> Yeah, thanks. >> And how exactly like do you stay so focused? Because the truth is like uh I think most entrepreneurs when they get started and they get to a point where they have product market fit, they believe, you know, that they have a loyal audience and that essentially they could sell pretty much anything they want to that audience. So, they have to go like uh broad. So, what what was like your your thinking? Are you just like uh wired like this naturally or uh was it also something a constraint that's part of the business? >> No, um I'm absolutely not. I I have like probably the worst ADD ever and so I'm I'm always excited about the next shiny thing. I would say Rashid is much more level-headed, but I would say the two of us both have that insight. We understood what you know, why we needed to do that. He's much more disciplined in terms of like setting a strategy and then sticking with it. I'm I was always trying to like convince him like, "Oh, what about this? What about that?" And then but then at the same time he'd be like, "No, Pete. Look, this is working. Why are we going to do anything else? We have so much more room to grow. There's so much more white space. We haven't even scratched the surface yet." And so like these were the conversations very early. Um and so yeah, I I would say if I didn't have a more level-headed partner like him, which is by the way why I partnered with him in the first place because I knew that was was the biggest issue that I had with Frozen Fitness. I just didn't have expertise on the ops and you know, finance side, but also I also have a certain type of personality. Um and then he's a is a perfect counterpoint. We cannot be more opposite. opposite. And And like it's actually funny the analogy that I that we always use is like if we were if Chomps is a truck barreling down the road, I'm the guy with my foot pinned down the gas. Rashid's the guy steering, and he also set up the guardrails to make sure that truck doesn't fall off the off the road. Um And that truck's getting bigger and bigger and going faster and faster, and it's not slowing down. So >> Yeah, and I mean that's that's really like impressive, especially with I think the competition around you. So how exactly do you navigate you know, like the the different like competitive landscape over the years because I assume that to the size you get, you've also like received acquisition offers along the way. So can you maybe like walk us through, you know, like the the different phases of the business and why you know, like you decided that this is the business you want to focus on and where you want to stay and not just sell it and do something else. >> Yeah. Yeah, okay. So, I'll start off like the phases of the business. Obviously, it started as direct to consumer for 4 years. And then in 2016 uh we still had no ambition whatsoever to go into retail. And then Trader Joe's reached out to us and they wanted to put the product in because we were a Whole30 approved product, right? And they were trying to And anyway, so they they put us in as a branded item. Um incredibly fortunate, Trader Joe's is still to this day one of our favorite retailers to ever work with. I mean, they gave us a shot when no one ever heard of us, right? Um but they they also their buyers are so incredibly smart and they saw the writing on the wall where this trend was going. Um even even more so than we did and it was our own product. Like it wasn't that That's crazy just to to see that, but um going from there we what we did from there is like the opposite of what most brands would do and also opposite of what um even we had some advisers early on that we used to work with. We don't talk to them anymore cuz they have nothing but bad advice, but they um but the advice they were giving us was you need to use this. Yeah, you have millions of people trying the product. You need to use this momentum to springboard and launch into other retailers and other channels. But Rashid and I were looking at this and we're like we are also so fortunate to be brought into Trader Joe's. One, that's like a that's a like a holy grail, you know, retailer. They brought us in as a branded item. Why would we even risk that? Why do we Why do we not just try to build that relationship and be the best possible Trader Joe's vendor we ever could be? Um and so we did that for over a year. And focused 100% of our time. We were two guys, by the way. Two people running this business. We were using and uh leveraging third parties, but um but this was it was us. And so we didn't even have the bandwidth to do anything else after this. So, um that was for the next year, and then we started after that thinking about, "Okay, how can we, you know, test and get into other retailers?" Um we found from there it was the obvious next step would be like to find people that would our product would resonate with and they're already buying our product usually through our website. Um and so that was like, you know, the Whole Foods and Sprouts of the world and really the natural channel. Um and the group but every step of the way we've been very slow and methodical, and we always think about going deep. And we want to own that relationship, and before we allowed ourselves to go and approach the next retailer, we want to make sure we became number one in the retailers we were at. Um and so yeah, that's been the strategy and it's still the strategy to this day. And I mean, if you think about it, like we're in over 50 we have 50,000 TDPs or or points of dish of distribution, right? Um and we're or and we're still not in convenience stores. So, if you think about like the the incumbents in this space that we we compete with, like the Jack Links and Slim Jims of the world, about half of their revenue comes from convenience stores. We're just now getting into them. And um so we have a ton of white space. We also know like we're still little guys compared to them, uh quickly approaching them though. We're about the same size as or very close to Slim Jims now. Um but we also know like those guys have very deep pockets. They're, you know, especially Conagra's got like they're big multi-billion dollar public and traded company. Um they could spend a lot of money on marketing and buying shelf space and all those things, and like we just don't want to compete and don't want to go at head-to-head with those guys. Um so yeah, we're we're right now still working on building up brand awareness to a point where we feel incredibly comfortable going into the convenience stores. And we know velocities are going to be, you know, second to none. We don't want to go and be number number two. We just want to do it. We want to go in and make sure we have a strategy to be number one, and it's got to happen very quickly. >> What would you say was the best like uh marketing action that you did to build such a strong brand awareness in the US? >> Early on, it was obviously the it was the the the uh influencer thing, right? And then um and then from there it was it was honestly like social media for us was like such a game changer cuz it's free. And I I I just needed to have like decent content. Um but I think spending the time to build a community and having that direct relationship. And so I'll give you a for instance. So um I did I personally answered every single customer service email that came in up until I think 2018, which I I think we were probably doing like 30 or 40 million dollars in revenue. Um and even when we started hiring a team, I was like so, you know, um hesitant to even pass that job off to anybody. And the reason being is um it was two-fold. I mean, one, I I loved having that direct relationship so I could hear directly from the consumers and get that feedback and understand what they're looking for. Um so I have an incredible understanding and a very deep understanding of what our customers want and why they're our customers and how to keep them there. Um but it was also I I think for me it was um you know, like that direct relationship. I want them to under- it's got to go both ways. It's They they just they understand that we're we're humanized. We're not just some brand. We're we're people that they're buying from. And people buy from people, you know this, right? And so it's um it's you know, I wanted them to never forget that. So we had that personal touch every step of the way. So that for us was like that was the the foundation of how we built Chomps, and we haven't really lost that. Now we've been scaling the team, we have a lot more people to be able to reach out to people and keep those touch points open. It's really tough to do as we're getting we're getting so scaled now to have that direct relationship, but um but that's why. Um it's actually funny. I'll give you another story actually. So, we uh we had no money obviously. I couldn't compete with any of these other snack brands on marketing or any of that stuff. I could couldn't really pay, you know, you know, the social media influencers to to talk about us or give them product and that was about it. But, I was like, "Okay, what could we do that costs us nothing that is like a service or an experience that these people will never never expect? If you emailed to Chomps the to our team at chomps.com back then it was team at gochomps.com we couldn't afford that that URL yet. Um but, they within seconds you would have a a response for me. And if I got somebody to say back to me, "Oh my god, that is the fastest email I've ever had back from a brand in my life." I would actually save that and bookmark it and I put it in its own folder and that's how I would grade myself. And uh and so I'm telling you, man, like little things like that as a little brand like people remembered that and they're like, "What a great service. What what great service." Like and you all the comments you would see in reviews were always like, "Oh my gosh, what great service. What great service." And so, that to us was like really onto something here. Like we need to be able to scale that. How do you find that and scale it? Cuz I would compare our reviews to other people other brands reviews. And this is like Amazon was already picking up and so, I could see all the and like it's all about service, quality. Like and so and mentioning people by name that work for Chomps. And so, it was like, "Let's never lose that." >> What were people asking the the most about like in customer service? >> Um a lot of people were were learning then about grass-fed, grass-finished beef, right? How were How the animals raised? What farms what what farms are these coming from? And so I was like, so glad you asked. And like I just rattle off and I had all you know, all the great answers. Um and then it was also about maybe specific ingredients in the product. Um It went on it was like the list goes on. It's like people are now now suddenly becoming really interested in not just the macros and or the nutrition facts panel. It's also about the ingredients. But then seeing an ingredient isn't isn't enough. People want to know how is it sourced? And so again, like that's we thrived on this stuff cuz I I we built the product for it was something that we wanted for ourselves, right? Um and so we knew like we checked the boxes and so we loved it when people would grill us and ask questions and we're like, well, yeah again, so glad you asked. So glad you asked and just give them the info and they're like, wow, so rare to find this type of thing. Um yeah, and so early early days like nothing has changed by the way. We have not changed the product once. Uh you know, same ingredients, same everything and it's just now we're just making more of it. >> So that's so cool. And uh what would you say was the biggest challenge growing to almost a billion dollar in sales? >> Um capacity and forecasting. Uh forecasting demand for us has been incredibly difficult. Let's put it that way. Um So we would we were basically doubling year over year. Um so we went from 10 to 20 to 40 to somewhere around 75. Then we went to we had like a weird year was like coming out of COVID. Um and then we got to about a little over a hundred. And then things like ran straight back out that out of that. Then we went to 200 then went to 430 then we went to seven seven like hundred something like that. And now we'll do like oh next to close to a billion, right? Like each year for us when when we're do putting these uh setting up the forecast and the annual contract for the year, we look at ourselves and we're like, "How irresponsible of us to to like to think that we're going to add 100 million, 200 million of top-line revenue in a single year when it took us 10 years to get to 100 million? Right? Like that doesn't make sense. Like how?" Um but again, like the the way that the these these are not trends anymore. These are like cultural shifts that we're dealing with. People Everybody is eating protein now. Protein is in every product you could possibly imagine. It's in your cereal. It's in your pretzels. It's in your It's like you name it, it's in your It's in everywhere. Um I think where we win is that Chomps is a natural source of protein. It's where protein comes from. It's like it's like you know, animal you know, animal-based protein. So, for us, I think that we're going to continue winning there. Um as people I think there's going to be like this like um what's the word? A little bit of like proteinification fatigue, right? There's too much protein in everything and people is like, "Get it out Get it out of my cereal. I don't want it anymore." Like it's just, you know. Um so, I don't know. I think when that happens, people aren't going to stop eating protein. I think they're going to they're going to be really selective on the sources. And so, I think that's uh we will win there. But um but I would say, you know, understanding those dynamics and and how incredibly powerful they are and how big these waves of demand are, we way undershot them for the couple years in a row. We've tried to get We're trying to get better about trying to I guess where demand is going to be. It's still impossible, man. Still impossible. Or like last year, we undershot it by nine figures. Um which is a terrible feeling because we actually cut nine figures of POs. Um and that is terrible. And cuz it's not just the lost revenue, it's also what how many customers have we lost too? Because now we're out of stock. We didn't build the production plan to support that type of demand. Um and so people are going to stores to find the product and it's not there. So, where are they going? They're going to buy some other competitor and So, that's um >> How much inventory can actually like can you actually get ahead of time like uh or do you keep like because I'm wondering like how stressed is kind of like the whole supply chain from someone's ordering and is there a product in the background or not? >> Yeah, there's well nowadays there's always a product in the background. Back in the day it was like I would take the orders and then produce against it and I'd be like, "Sorry, it's going to be like 4 weeks before you get your sticks." Like that just doesn't that does not going to fly anymore. Um So, we we're our our operations team is incredibly sophisticated in terms of like building up the inventory and making sure they've got the right product mix too because obviously people are going to buy more of some flavor or skew than another. Um so, that's um But yeah, these people are so much smarter than me on that end. I don't even I don't get involved. Uh Um but I would say like you know, we went from one production facility so one one co-man partner in one facility um back in 2021 to now we have seven different facilities making our product. And a couple of few of those actually are dedicated to making just Chomps product. Um And uh yeah, again like you mentioned it earlier earlier we're making over 2 million sticks a day right now. And um and it's not not slowing down. Like we're we're just still trying to trying to keep up. Um But I would say like the you know, managing all of that like the seven different facilities and all like now these different skews and now we have like we have to have like multiple warehouses packing out different types of like it's just a lot of management. Uh Um And the team is again super sophisticated around it, but in despite how I I there there is a lot of complexity at this stage that has gotten a little bit away away from us because we scaled so fast, especially in the last 3 or 4 years. Um it's either you support the growth or you focus on, you know, keeping things simplified. And it's like we need to support the growth right now and we'll come back later and kind of, you know, consolidate, you know, facilities and that type of thing, but it's um yeah, so that's that's kind of where we're at right now. >> And I think like at some point cuz you bootstrapped the business, I think at some point you you took some cash out. Um can you maybe like uh walk us through of how exactly did you decide to take some cash out? What was the reasoning behind it and maybe also the expectation of of a fund when they come in and what they expect in the future? >> Absolutely. Um so Okay, so we went through COVID. That was a scary time cuz we were kind of flying high all the way up into COVID. And just kind of we didn't think we were invincible even we were smarter than that, but I think we were we also we thought we built a a very like we always use this word durable. We thought we built a very durable company. Um and you know, we can survive the the highs and lows and all of that, right? Um and then COVID's kind of changed that. Um We didn't who could have ever, you know, uh forecasted that, but I think for us it was uh it was a tough one because it it came out we came out of the gates and I don't know if you remember like in the early days of of COVID, people like, "Well, the stores getting shut down. There's a meat shortage." So now you've got everyone pantry loading. So now velocities and demand went through the roof. So this was not just on our website and I Amazon, but it was in our retailers. And so like at Trader Joe's, they're doubling their PO sizes, they're giving us more like So we had millions and millions and millions of sticks that we were making um against each of these channels and then, for instance, like a Trader Joe's, they decided that they had a got um corporate policy, they're going to eliminate it the foot traffic in a store to 10 people per store. So, it went from doors wide open, product flying, to 10 people in the store at a time. And then on top of it, we were always at the cash registers, but they also wanted to protect their cashiers. So, now they put up a plexiglass wall. So, Chomps were behind the plexiglass wall. So, it was like a like the Chomps museum, right? So, even if you wanted the product, you couldn't get it. Um so, our sales there just went to next to zero overnight. Um and then so, we they, you know, this lasted for a few weeks and they're trying to they're trying to gauge to see how long this is going to last and all that and finally they were like, this is going to be longer than we thought. Um we don't need that product anymore. So, we're canceling all of those open POs. It's just like what a gut punch. Like, oh my god, what are we going to do cuz we already produced so much to fill all the demand in every other channel. We had no home for that. Um but our team is so awesome that over time, and only took a few weeks actually, of them pounding the pavement and just getting super creative to figure out like all these new channels of where to sell the product. So, it was like Thrive Market. It was uh there was like a few other ones that were we we started getting like leaning really heavily into e-commerce. And um we still have these are new channels for us that we were never in before and so, we were like, well, this is kind of awesome. So, we moved all that product and then Trader Joe's opened the doors back up. So, now suddenly demand is like picked back up. So, but during that period, there was this huge lull. We were out of cash and it was either like we figure out like we we got to lay people off. Like, what are we going to do? Like, we couldn't lay people off. We took forever to build this little team that we have, and these people are superstars. Um we So we decided we were like we let the team know like we are in a really bad position. We need to put our heads together and figure out how to fix this. We're not going to lay any of you guys off. We're not furloughing anybody. You guys are all keeping your jobs. We're going to pay you to the very last cent that we have. But we all need to put the you put our heads together and fix this. And so we did. And um and it worked out, man. So we moved that product. Things opened back up, and when things opened back up, our velocities just went through the roof. Um and so we it just hasn't slowed down since. So again, it was like that year was a bad year when we did almost 100 million, but then we um uh it just continued doubling from there. >> And this is when you decided that uh after that it was time to to take some cash out a little bit of it. >> I missed that point. Yeah, so we So Rashid and I were always on the hook personally for personal guarantees on every bit. So we had some debt that we took out from banks. Um and then you know, we were personally guaranteeing literally everything. And so to the point where during COVID, we literally >> just sorry to interrupt, but just for people to understand, whenever you like uh take a debt, uh it's on your business, but uh the bank was asking you to personally guarantee the the cash, meaning that if you default the debt from the existing business, they can seize your property, your assets, etc., etc. Is that correct? >> Absolutely. Yeah. >> Okay. Okay, so that puts a lot of pressure. >> A lot of pressure. And we both had kids. [snorts] We both had families. And um And so we were coming into this, and you know, during COVID, we thought we were not only losing the business, we thought we were losing our houses and and all of our own personal everything. And realizing then, you know, it wasn't just us anymore. And I'm by the way, I'm the risk taker. Rashid is less of a risk taker, but he actually went along with a a of these things because I with my pushing, I'm like, we got to do this. We got to do this." And so, it was just like a bad bad feeling, you know, that, you know, we we put it all on the line. Our kids never signed up for this, you know? And it was like, you know, we're putting their lives at stake. And I don't know. So, we we got through it. We're like, "Man, that was not a fun thing at all. Now the business is back on track. Let's do something where we find a financial partner because if something like this were to ever happen again, we need to make sure we've got some some backing." Um and on top of that, we were also growing so quickly. And again, like you're nearly doubling at you're doubling from 5 million to 10 million or 10 to 20, like those are completely different business models. When you're doubling from 100 to 200, like you're at a totally different level. And the the infrastructure that you need is it's astronomical. It's it's crazy. There's just so much different infrastructure that that we needed. We didn't even know what we needed. That was the thing. Like so, we're kind of raising our hand. We're like, "This has taken off. We need someone that's been there and done it. So, who can we partner with?" So, it was kind of a, you know, really checking off two boxes. It was de-risk our families, uh but then also uh bring somebody in that that's been there and done it and learn from their scar tissue because we were we were we had enough scars at that point. Um but yeah. So, and by the way, I would I would um just on that raise that we did, it was 100% secondary. There There was no primary capital. Um in the in the life of the life of our business, we've taken on less than a million dollars of primary capital. So, when we did our raise, it was purely to de-risk the families and then other shareholders and that type of thing. >> Nice. Nice. And personally, like when I cashed out in 2021, we sold like 20% of the business for $30 million. And after that, you know, I was it kind of like changed my vision on the on the business and the risk that I was able to take. Can you share like how it impacted you and your co-founder after the the the secondary? >> It's That's that That exact thing, right? So, now we we did we did enough to where it was like, "Okay, if we never made another dollar after this from Toms, like the families are okay. We're not going to be homeless, right?" Like that's like that's what we need. And so, that was That was >> Unless you go play poker too much, but >> Yeah, exactly. Or my wife goes shopping for purses or something like that. But yeah, that's a >> [laughter] >> But um no, I I That was the goal. And so, again I I it was such a a weight lifted off of our shoulders. And we didn't really realize I I'll be honest, we didn't realize how much of a of a relief it would be and how we can make decisions in such a different way. Thinking about I'll give you an example. Like so So, up until that point, everything was all about getting an immediate ROI. So, if I was investing money, I needed to get paid immediately. So, what does that mean? I'm only serving the bottom of the funnel. I'm I'm missing all of my mid top of funnel. So, what's happening there? Brand awareness is suffering. Right? And so, we're not casting a wide enough net. And this is actually something that So, Stride Consumer Partners is our our private equity partner. That's one of the things that they actually like forced into our brain. Like, "What are you guys doing? Like you you you're you're too efficient here. Your ROAS is like multiples higher than it should be. You need to bring that down. You need to be spending for top of funnel and get the brand awareness out there." So, that's exactly what we started doing and there was a massive unlock. Um Uh and so, again like we would not be scaled to the point where we are right now without that investment. >> And with uh the secondary fund like uh coming in, what's kind of like their uh their view on uh on the path for liquidity for them? Like do they want to uh Is it a fund that's going to like take more and more of the business? Or eventually do they want to exit like uh Yeah. >> They will eventually look for a liquidity event of some some sort, um but I would say they are incredibly uh patient. Um even like so we have like a contract obviously when they bought the thing, but at some point we're supposed to have to deliver equity back to them, and they're like verb- verbalizing that like they have no interest in even they'd rather they'll stay in for the next 10 years if they if they can. Um I would say that for all of us we need to be thinking about what is the exit strategy cuz you should have something at some point. Um and I at our scale right now we're realizing the buyer pool from like a for a strategic to be able to come and buy us it's dwindling. There's only so many people that could actually acquire us at this stage. So now it's like, okay, and and we were we were always about having that optionality. I think optionality is has so much value, right? Like cuz you could do anything with the business. We could do another private equity raise, we can do a dividend recap because we're profitable, we can you know, again, exit to a strategic or IPO. Um and so that the IPO discussion's becoming more and more real um the bigger that we get, and I think that I think there's a massive opportunity for someone to come into the public markets with a better for you CPG company that's focused on food and beverage that uh that's all they do, right? And so you've got all of these the the stand you know, the the typical big CPGs that you have right now their stocks are suffering right now because they're being pulled down by these portfolios that are made up of products that nobody wants anymore. It's ultra-processed foods, it's just a bunch of crap loaded with sugar and preservatives and all that. And And it's like quite honestly that's gone. That's not coming back. That's not There's no cycle for that, right? Like this is like a cultural shift. People are too smart. They know what they're eating. Um and so we see that as a huge opportunity for somebody to build a portfolio of products that are only delivering on modern-day, you know, dieting and food for the future. Um and so that's where I know I think we could I think we could accomplish that and starting with Chomps, right? And with these meat sticks. And I'm not sure yet if it would look like Chomps is now extending into other categories and it's building off of that brand or is it a uh portfolio of brands? Not sure yet. I've no idea. All I know is that the vision's there and um kind of refining it. So. >> What what would you say is uh is missing right now for uh Chomps to to do an IPO? >> Um a few things. I think, you know, I'd like to have more scale. Um from a profitability standpoint, we're we're in a at a period of time right now where beef has never been more expensive, right? An all-time high. Um you know, so it's very commodity-driven. Um I think there's things within like the from like a supply chain perspective uh that we need to be able to fix and button up. Um I would say like just uh for instance, we went from one to seven facilities. We're actually greenfielding another uh from from uh building it from ground up. That'll be our eighth. We need to be able to consolidate and simplify those things a bit. Um but what happens is from a continuous improvement standpoint, there's a lot of low-hanging fruit. Yields are suffering, which means margins are suffering. So we need to it's margin improvement over time. So we need to be able to do that. Um and then I think also having like a second and third leg of the stool would be nice. I mean, we're very it's it's simple, which I think public markets reward in a way, but I also think it's risky because if somebody people were suddenly like, "We're not eating meat sticks anymore." What happens? And so there's inherent risk there. So we need to be able to diversify and have um you know, just something else in the in the portfolio. So. >> And and more of a personal question because I know we're almost like running out of time. Like as as a CEO, like how do you level up and scale a bit faster than your business? >> Uh you're saying so so I can keep up with the business? Well, I I I I'm not. I bowed out actually. So I bowed out a little over a year ago as CEO. So I was So I was CEO for 10 years. Uh Rashid was COO. Um after our private equity raise, we finally built a board. We never had a board before that. Our board board decisions were made via text between the two of us, you know, it was just like the two of us two dudes. Um but then we brought in uh her name is Liz Carter. She's amazing. She started off as uh a board member. And then she's uh moved over. We hired her full-time, brought her in as president and COO. When she came in as COO, me and Rashid and I we just became co-CEOs. Did that for about 3 years. And then um I decided I was I needed to to take a step back from the CEO role. One because like it was just naturally happening honestly. Like Rashid is a a natural leader. But also in the the point in time where the business was, we were very we were inventory constrained. Um so it was all based on supply chain and operations. We needed to fix that side of the business. We needed the whole entire business from sales, every function needed to understand where we were. And having him deliver that message was super important. So what I was realizing is like doing a RACI model, um what decisions do I need to be involved with, which ones do I own, what do I need to be informed of, and like our team is so stacked right now. We have so many experts that are better than not only me, but even Rashid. The two of us are just much less important Well, it's less important to the business than we ever were, right? Um and so I decided uh I'm going to bow out uh because there's everyone else is better at making these decisions, and I'm moving to a chairman role. So, I'm able to still do like the setting the vision, you know, maintaining that vision, or or you know, more high-level strategic work, and get out of the day-to-day. Um how do >> How do you How do you feel about it? I did that a year ago, so I'm curious to know like you. Yeah. >> Oh my god, like you you know how it is probably too, cuz I'm super hands-on and like like and um in the beginning like I I hated it first off. Like it was like I'm like, "What do I do with my hands?" Like I don't Like I wake up in the morning and I want to start like just going working. I'm like talking to people. But like I also I had to control myself, and I realized that me making this announcement, "Guys, team, I'm stepping down because of this this and this." And then they keep hearing from me every single day I directly to each employ like like who do I report to? Like like I'm just creating like confusion and it's unnecessary. I need to be able to just step back and truly let let Rashid lead, and then he'll be my conduit, and I can just basically, you know, work through him. Um and that's how how it's been. We start before I actually did the the stepping down, we tested it a little bit where I was kind of like, "Hey, listen, like I'm going to kind of cut off a lot of communication. I want you to deliver these messages. I want like so he and I would would align with the messaging is, and then he would deliver it." That's kind of how we're working now. Um we're we're still connected at the hip, the two of us. Like we talk all the time. Um but it's just different. And I'm getting more and more used to it. I'm seeing the value in it now because I'm able to do things or think through things and just look a little more further down the road than we ever did. Um because it was always about, you know, what's happening right now and being very reactive about things. So, I uh yeah. And what about you? What about you? What's What's it like for you? >> Uh to be honest, I started like uh another business. Yeah. >> I'm I'm I'm >> Eventually, you know, like after a year or so like I was uh at first I uh I felt like it was time for me to become like uh professional triathlete. So I did three Ironman. I trained a lot. Like I was spending my life doing this and then I realized okay, I'm I'm too old for that [ __ ] and and not good enough. >> [laughter] >> So after that I was like yeah, I need to to just do other things like learn to invest my money and I started working a bit more in the on the investment side and now like launching something but yeah, it's it's a journey. >> [laughter] >> Yeah, so same same here. You know, I started doing a bunch of the direct investing. I started I'm an LP in a couple different private equity funds. I'll probably move into GP status on one of them. I'm getting like my hands involved You know what's funny the more companies that I touch and the more that I'm investing in and our boards that I sit on I'm realizing just how special Chomps is and I'm like realizing like Oh my god, like this is like we this is it's a true unicorn. And unicorn status now. Like it's wild. But I also for me it was one of the other things I have three kids, three small kids. Rashid has the same like about the same ages. So it's mine are 9, 6, and 3. And I felt like you know, I I missed a lot especially with my oldest son and and then I feel like I just wanted to to be able to spend more time with them and be more of a like a good dad and like be I I want my kids to be able to look back and just be like yeah, my dad was there all the time. And so like I moved I moved out of the in a separate office. I'm in my home office now. So the kids when they're hopefully they're not home yet cuz they're they're loud. But uh But yeah, I'm just like I want them to see me all day every day. It's just like it's it's the memories I want for my kids. So >> Yeah, it's must be a fantastic feeling. >> Yeah. Yeah, >> [laughter] >> that's good. >> So cool. I know we're almost out of time. So the final question would be like what what advice would you give like to someone want to build like a business that can do a billion dollar in sales. >> Yeah, uh stay focused. Stay focused, do one thing, be the absolute best, do not stop learning. And be And you need to be as hard like hard on yourself. Like that's like you need to be your biggest critic and I think that's like one of those things that Rashid and I do really well, a little too well sometimes actually cuz we have a hard time actually celebrating wins. Um but it's uh I would just say like that's why we're here though. Um because we the the pedal's to the metal and I think that that's uh anyone that does that and keeps that mindset will be will be successful eventually. >> 100% agree. Pete, it was a a great conversation. I time flies. So thanks a lot for your time and have an awesome day. >> Thank you, brother. >> [music] [music] [music]
