# What Agents That Actually Work Look Like Right Now with Replits CEO and Founder

Channel: SaaStr
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RdalLtvn2-M
Upload date: 2026-06-09

---

Thanks for coming. We'll let folks stream in for a minute, but um if you've been into the bunch of sessions today, we're going to have some fun. Um so most of this all, as you guys know, is built on Replit. So, thank you for building this platform. It has been quite a journey. So much has changed. If you guys have been through this half day to kick off, I did this 101 on the first agent we ever built 42 months ago on Delphi. Amelia talked about building your own 10K on Replit. Now, I want to take advantage of Amjad, who co-founded Replit back in 2016. AI was was a twinkle in your eye back then, right? >> Yes. >> Was it even a twinkling in your eye in 2016? >> was. It was. There was There was a brief, people forget, but there was a brief language model, it wasn't a large language model, but there was a brief language model model hype uh where, you know, Facebook had this like Messenger M product. Uh there was a bunch of companies that were doing like email bots. Everyone was doing human in the loop. Everyone was doing like, you send a message and we'll try with AI. It's usually just people behind the scene. And so, it didn't last long, but there was a feeling in the air that that like language models are are going to be significant. And there was a group of us that understood that language models are going to have a huge significance on software. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Um so, if we have time, we'll go back to the beginning um getting Replit here, but I want to talk about the present. There aren't that many better futurists than Amjad, but I don't want to talk about 2028. I want to talk about the agents we built on Replit and maybe a little bit into the future. >> I I I think Jason, you live in the future. And yeah, I'm not saying that lightly. Like, if if you think about the recent agent hype started around December 2025, you've been in it for like 3 or 4 months, already understood the prospect of it. Yeah. I think you and a lot of other Replit users uh understood that agents have arrived since agent 3 I would say September October that oh these things can run for an hour and like refactor my entire app and do all that. Engineers actually figured out a little later. And you know there there was a tweet by Elad recently Elad Gel saying oh people at the labs are 6 months ahead of Silicon Valley. Silicon Valley is 6 months ahead of New York. In reality actually Replit users were like 6 months ahead of everyone else even people in the labs because when we oh when we launch these agents a lot of times we get researchers messaging us it was like oh we didn't know Cloud was capable of running for you know 10 hours at a time and like we're learning a lot from you. >> Yeah. Yeah it is um we're we're living in the future and I think if people it's a good point if people take anything out of it is that you if you want you can live in the future too. >> I actually think engineers are laggards. Uh not only engineers but like a lot of engineers are because they're kind of tied to their workflows and I think you see it now with 10K agents like 10K. Really no one is building agents like that. >> Yeah. >> That that are actually employee-like and actually and I've heard you're going to have someone reporting to them pretty soon. >> The goal that's the goal yeah. >> But but yeah everyone talks about agents. The only agents that work are software agents marketing agents sales agents all that haven't really worked very well and so 10K is an example of something that works. >> Yeah. >> That's rare. >> It's rare yeah. >> You're listening to the official Saastr AI podcast brought to you by Hey everybody starting a business can get expensive fast. One place here email somewhere else business phone with another provider. Northwest Registered Agent gives you a complete business identity in one place with free tools resources and built-in privacy from day one. Get more at northwestregisteredagent.com/sastrfree. [music] That's northwestregisteredagent.com/sastrfree. S A free saastr [music] free Starting a tech company is thrilling. It's also really messy. Just got to ask anyone who's done it or anyone who's tried. Better yet, [music] ask EY. They've seen startups in their best moments. Go to ey.com/techstartups to learn more. >> So, I want to There's a bunch of stuff I want to chat with you, but first I want to get some of your reactions as one of the creators to all of this to a few things. So, just a reminder, I know you know a little bit of We built two Well, we've actually built a third you haven't heard about. So, 10K was the first one. Becoming autonomous marketing, QB's customer success handled everyone out there better than a human I want to show you. Then we have a third one. I know you're not going to like this. That manifested itself. That created itself on Replit, which I'll show you. >> Holy >> Um So, but I want to get your We've talked a lot about this, but I want to get your perspective and go deep. So, >> Yeah. >> first cheat code I want to is that the beauty to it is it knows us cold. Amelia I think touched on this prior session, but literally every piece of data you can find some of it is pushed into the Replit database and to Neon or whatever it is. A lot of it is pulled in real time out of APIs, Salesforce, niche apps you've never heard of like Bizible and Marketo and others. But, the amount of data the agent can access and process is more than any human. >> Yes. I think we've already crossed the threshold >> Yeah. >> for which the context links is larger than any context a human can have. >> Yeah. >> And I I think that's huge because I mean, just think back 2 years ago uh we had 16K context length. Right now we have over 1 million. >> Yeah. >> It's a massive difference. >> And how And I want to show you what why this chart is sort of interesting, but it's a million. Help me understand. I I just want to get a little nerdy for a second. When I'm running the agent in Replit perpetually, not refreshing it, not which is my passion. Never never In the old days when we started in Replit, you like rebooted the agent three times a day. Now I mean I just go with never, right? It's compacting the data. You're doing it, Claude's doing some, you're doing some. How how long can that context window last at a practical level? Forever or and where's it going? >> Practically indefinitely. Now, it depends on the compacting algorithm and how good it is. We actually think ours is much better than a Claude and many others on the market. >> Are there two or are you Are they both running or only you're only running? So you're not using any compaction from Claude. It's just Replit's compaction. >> ours is better. And I I I think the thing about the primitives that the labs build, they tend to be very generic. And so I think every app will need to You could start with a generic primitives, but for it to perform really well on your benchmark, on your users, every use case is going to be different. And so we care a lot about like, you know, certain pieces of data around the architecture of the app. There are certain things that absolutely need to remember. Like if it forgot that it has a database, like that's catastrophic, right? So there are things that we really care about preserving. But then there are a lot of things that are like bugs and things that you solved. Actually, if you keep them in context, agent performs worse because it it is confused by by the history of it. So you need to be very prudent about knowing what to delete and knowing what to what to keep. In the background, we have sort of a graph-like structure of understanding that the different memories. And we do compaction on Actually, there's like multiple layers. There's compaction, but there's also writing to long-term memory, and long-term memory is today is markdown files. So, raffle.md, I'm sure you look at it sometimes. Raffle.md is an example of that, but there are other files that the agent can write to. And you could also prompt it to write its own uh long-term memory. You can say, you know, use this knowledge base, and you can also have the knowledge base shared between you and the agent, so you can always kind of keep track of what it's doing. >> Now, you said Okay, let me get your insight. You said sometimes with the long context window, the agent will make more mistakes cuz it has more more bugs to put But let me give you Um we haven't really talked about it much. If you go to saastr.ai, we probably have 10 apps running in one codebase and one URL. We have a website. We have a fun tool to uh help you value your startups. Maybe folks have used It's been used over a million times, which is crazy. We have uh an AI that grades uh startup pitch decks 4,500 times. We now have a one that grades all how agent-friendly APIs are. Okay, all these different apps. When I go to build a new one, it pulls it remembers. He's like, oh, we did that with the pitch deck grader. It didn't work that well. Let me do this new app a different way. Maybe it gets confused on bugs, but the power of the agent remembering how I built other apps to build a new one, I find it kind of amazing. >> point. My point is bugs that it fixed should be removed from context. >> I see. >> Cuz then it will get confused, but architectural decisions on how it built things in the past is very important to stay in context or stay in long-term memory and be able to pull it in very easily. Um but you bring up a very good point. Uh with agent four, going from agent three to four, one of the big architectural decisions that we made with agent four is we made it into a mono repo. What you described is a mono repo. Like if If go work at Google or Facebook, uh usually everything is one mono repo. And the reason they do it is because they want you to be able to use packages across Gmail, across Google, or Facebook and Messenger. And uh actually this is doubly important with agents. So, when we embarked on Agent 4, the thing that about Replit that felt kind of a little clunky is that for you to make a deck, you need to go to a different uh Replit, create a new project. For you to make a mobile app, you need to create an entirely different project. We're like, "No, everything needs to be in one place. You need to be able to run your entire company in one place." Ideally, you need to be able to see everything laid out on the canvas. I don't know how much you use the canvas. >> Yes, a bit. Yes. >> Like the idea, I mean how the other day I was talking to a to a company fully bootstrapped started on Replit. Five, six people now. They started with a couple people, but then they've grown. And they have everything laid out on a canvas on Replit. They have their mobile app, their web app, their back end, their admin, their back office, their automations. I'm like, "Man, I wish I could run Replit like you know?" Cuz you can see everything in one place. And now with the new collaboration primitives that we have, where you can start new tasks, new threads, and so people can work simultaneously on the same projects, I think this idea of a mono repo will become more and more important. You want the agent to have access to global context as much as possible. Not necessarily all in the context window at any given moment, but it will know it will have enough pointers that it will know to go search the files and bring in the right context at the right time. So, I I recommend everyone here, whether you're using Replit or not, really think about providing these mono repos with all the information you want. We We have a data agent uh at Replit built on Replit. but because data at Replit is so big right now, we have terabytes of data across, you know, across BigQuery and Databricks and and all the other things. And all the schemas are different. And so, we created this repo with that has all the information about all the fields and everything the agent learned about our data because, you know, there's a problem now when we talked about it earlier where agents can write back queries that end up costing you millions of dollars in BigQuery or Databricks or Salesforce back ends uh cost. So, it's important, especially when it comes to data, to to write out the information, have the agent continuously learn how to better query the the database. >> Yeah, the um that maybe just to summarize it at very lay level, the mono repo it if you're building on something like Replit, maybe it's a hack today. Maybe it won't be a hack later in the year. The more you put in a single app, the more power you're going to get rather than breaking it up. It It's very tempting to break things up into 20 apps, right? But I found and there are powers to it because in some ways you get the benefit of >> a clean database, separate data and yeah. >> new clerk instance or but you lose but there's so much power if you guys Amelia talked about building 10K and we have 10K and QB will we'll chat about before we end our AIVP because they're different. It'd be It'd be great In some ways it'd be great if they were the same app, right? They communicate through APIs. >> Yeah. >> Um, but they can't learn from each other the same way it >> They can't share context. >> Yeah, they can't quite do it, right? >> Yeah. >> Um, but just on this and maybe we don't have we can we can move on, but this this is all of our social media numbers. 1.27 million social media followers for Saastr. I can see it all over time. This is all built 10K built this for me. Um, we used to have an admin who spent 10 to 15 hours a week building this. >> Wow. >> And she would go to There's a lot to A lot of these aren't even exposed APIs. She would go manually put it in in a Google Sheet, collect it, forget to do it. Um now 10K can do all of it between scraping and APIs, and then I can talk to this data. It's a massive amount of data it's collecting. This isn't even all people that are here 10 years of attendees. This is just social media data that was unable to be acted upon until it was in inside of an agent and inside of an application. >> Well, as I understand it that um like when you were running SaaStr whatever 5 years ago, you had like 20 people >> Yeah. >> and now you run it with two people and multiple agents. >> Yeah. >> Is that the rough numbers like a an order of magnitude less headcount? >> Yeah, but but you can do more. >> Yeah. Yes. >> But this one and then this person just quit after 5 years. Um I couldn't She couldn't stand doing these Google Sheets of how many Twitter followers I had after 5 years. It was that you know, the agents don't mind mind-numbing work. >> Right. I mean that's that's that don't get discussed in the job displacement discussion is that there's a lot of jobs that suck that agents are just better at. >> People don't want to do them, right? Um All right, so let me show you a little narrative to get your thoughts, right? As founder and CEO of Replit. So, here's 10K on the side. This is me talking and again, you can tell me whether this is a hack or not. >> Yeah. >> 10K is an application and it has a chat window and it can be accessed on the web, but we run it almost full-time in Replit and have the Replit agent talk to the app. >> Mhm. >> Right? It's smarter. And I asked them, 10K, like you might a VP of marketing, are you sure all the VCs that came to SaaStr last year, are you sure this is all the VCs that came last year that aren't coming this year for new email campaign? Sounds like fair concern. I screwed up. I missed some titles. Um I found 137 VCs that came before I forgot to invite, right? Pretty interesting that and is this weird us using the Replit agent to talk to cuz we're staying in dev mode. >> Yeah. >> This doesn't work in production, does it? Unless I'm missing something. Replit doesn't think it works in production. I don't think it works in So, we're hacking the Replit. I know I know I'm not supposed to personify it. I know it's an editor now, but we talk to the Replit agent to make the application work better. >> Yeah. Yeah, so this is this is amazing and this is why I say Jason is living in the future. A big part of the next iteration of Replit, if you guys are following what we do every 6 months, release we kind of a a massive jump in capabilities between agent 1 2 3 and 4, everyone is almost an entirely like new product, new set of capabilities. I'm really trying to track we're trying to be at the edge of what's really possible in AI today. And I think the the next thing is to platformize Replit even more to make it so that you can deploy Replit agent to production. Now, the reason this works really well is because, you know, 10K is is an app is sitting inside of an app, you know, application platform and and it has access to the database and things like that. But, the cool thing about Replit agent is has access to all its skills. All the skills in the world, we can download any skill once you you got to kind of ask a question it'll go down all the right skill. It's access to all of the connection. Any connection is like one click away. Uh, salesforce, what have you. It has access to the file system. This is huge. Agents really like file systems. They like them better than SQL. >> Yes. >> They're really trained on doing grep and doing kind of search in the Unix command line. And so, because of that power of a general purpose coding agent, you find even more success of talking to 10X through Replit Agent because Replit Agent can you know, do a lot of other things and query a lot of other sources of information before it kind of relays the information back to it. 10K. So, but that's what we want to do for everyone here. They don't have to hack it. We're going to be able to deploy a Replit Agent into a production environment and have it be served publicly to your users. >> Okay, so let me show you what happened next. So, I with Tocaly Asian, it said, "You're right, I'm wrong. We we forgot to invite these 137 VCs here." And then, here's something I don't really understand, Amjad. So, we've been playing with 10K for months and we have it draft emails, okay? And it's using the application that we vibed and it's using some cloud and using whatever is and and the emails were okay, okay? That that it drafted. Then, I said, this is literally last week cuz everything's getting better, but I don't always know why. Then, I said, "Okay, draft me an email to these 137 VCs." And it drafted one that one of your investors, okay? And it was like, "To Bloomberg Beta." I think they're one of your seed investors. >> And I said, "Write James isn't coming back. Write him an email." This is I told I just said like you would say to a human, "Why the hell isn't James here this year?" You know, he's been part of SaaStr, why isn't he Look at this email he wrote. It's next week, not pitching you. Replit's here in Series 4. Now, think about the data point. Here are 25 people coming from Replit. Amjad, Michelle, >> what? >> Look at Look how good this email is. All these people and everyone else, the competitors, the adjacent folks, they're all here. >> Wow. >> Look at what a crappy SDR AI email was 12 months ago. This is so good. >> Yeah, this is amazing. >> a little hard for you to see, but how does it so good? >> This This if if you did this like a couple months ago, it wouldn't have >> Yeah, I'm not even talking about December and four or five. I'm literally saying la- When I showed this to Amelia, I did this last week. Like, what is this? May 8th. My jaw dropped because I'd never seen an email this good. >> Yeah. >> Right? >> Look, I think I'm >> I got a lot of feedback from folks that got different versions email. I've I've that's the best one I've ever seen. But why? What changed or is it just getting better at cuz it's just pulling data, right? And but but it's so this is such a good email. Why is it so good? No human could write an email No human would even have the patience to pull every single person of Replit is here, scan 8,000 registrants, figure out who they are, who's like them, create like How What happened 2 weeks ago, Amjad? >> What what was that What is 10K's AI? Is it open AI? Is it What What is running 10K's AI? Not the Replit agent, is it? >> No, okay. I get confused. It It It can do it at once. A lot of it ironically just runs on Haiku and Mini. >> Okay. >> It's just Haiku and Mini, right? And so it's not even running It's not It's not even running on Sonnet or anything, right? But this was also the agent. >> Yeah. >> In the Replit agent working with 10K to this email. >> So I'll I'll What I'll tell you how we improve Replit on a day-to-day and week-to-week basis. Maybe that'll give you an idea. Eval's are incredibly difficult. It's really hard to know uh It's Eval's are incredibly difficult. It's really hard to know uh It's really hard to build an Eval benchmark. It's a research problem. We actually did put out a research paper called Vi- uh Vibe bench that we're we're going to be talking about soon. We worked on this for months in order to just like create one single Eval. Now, to evaluate everything that Replit does is like semi-impossible. What we do is a lot of AB testing. And what are the parameters that we AB test on? Yeah. You. One very important one is sentiment. People are incredibly honest with the feedback they give Replit agents. It It often they're profane and they'll they'll curse at it and it Some people say it works better when you do it so. I I A little bit. I pass no judgement. So, um we will look at sentiment, we'll look at deploy rate. Is any change that we're doing to prompting >> Yeah. >> underlying model to underlying collection different models cuz we use a lot of different models. You know the architect? That's GPT-5.5, right? It used to be 5.4 like couple weeks ago. >> even know that. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> And we we also moved to 4.7. We're also constantly testing the reasoning um how much reasoning we're doing. We're constantly testing our searching capability cuz that's also a different model. We we used a Gemini Flash for a long time. I think we use one of the minis now. And so we're constantly evolving [snorts] the prompts. I'll tell you the crazy thing that happened recently is we closed the loop and we have an agent internally at Replit that is constantly evolving Replit agent. What it does every night it will look at all the traces >> Yeah. >> of everyone that's interacting with Replit analyzes them, finds you know, things that are broken, sentiment issues, errors, you know, things like that. Uh generates a pull request with prompt changes and sends it to production. That gets merged, that becomes an AB test. We test whether that uh that change is done and then and then we loop back. We either release it or we kind of edit it. And that's autonomous now. So now we have a self-improving loop. This is the crazy thing that everyone needs to understand today is that we are on the precipice of unlocking self-improving agents. Self-improving agents is is like the stuff of of of sci-fi or nightmares depending on what kind of sci-fi you read. But you know, a lot of sci-fi talks about the moment we get to singularity is the moment than an AI just is improving itself. And we're actually almost there. It's not improving its weights, but it's improving its contacts, which is as important as its weights. And so, that's all running itself autonomous loop. So, honestly, I couldn't tell you what changed because there's so many changes happening, but we track whether it's improving or not and there's a constant improvement. >> Well, look, and I don't know if folks agree if you can see the screen and we'll share all the sides, but until May 8th, I don't believe that 10K together with Replit could build a better email than anybody. But this is a I know you're not I know you're a little bit more of a developer and engineer by training. This is better than any human can do. >> Yeah, I mean, what you said about telling James Replit is there and all of that. I mean, uh Yeah. Yeah, it would take a good creative person, sales guy, to actually figure out how to >> A week. >> Yeah. >> And they wouldn't send it. >> Right. >> It's still better because it would be typo-ridden if it was a >> Yeah. >> Um Okay, so then it went Um then it did the whole campaign to all those 136 VCs, including James. And it came back to us. I just wrapped it up. Here's what I did. Um we He emailed 331 investors, um inviting them back. Zero send failures for now. And then he he um put it all into different groups. It It This is He did the campaign on his own. 10K, the 331 emails. I mean, uh it's pretty good. Okay, I want to show you one other data, okay? I know for you guys this is a little hard to see. I apologize. Um I'm color blind, which is not an excuse for the chart. But let me show you what's going on here. First of all, I could never build a dashboard. Now I get any dashboard I want. >> the best, yeah. >> It's really a big deal. So, this is day-by-day ticket sales, uh free and paid to this event. And the dashed line at the top is when 10K took over marketing. >> Wow. >> The one the the lighter dash at the bottom is when poor Amelia had to do it last year. Poor agent. >> Yeah. >> And here's what's interesting. I don't know why the gap And you see how the gap grew toward the end? >> Yeah. >> Is this because 10K got better? Is it because as Amelia was too busy last year like building this and she couldn't do it? >> Right. >> Is it because 10K sits idle all day waiting for work, but look at how much better >> Yes. >> Yes. >> was not on the best days when they were closer, but at the end when you get busy, that's a large delta of productivity from the agent, right? Here's an example of what he built that's like beautiful. Amelia touched on the but it never gets tired. >> Right. It just keeps going. >> gets tired, right? Okay. Um maybe not as impressed as I am, but I think it's pretty >> No, I I think it's pretty pretty amazing. I think you're living the dream and you know, I remember it's kind of a Silicon Valley cliche, but I remember reading this book called a sovereign individual. And it talks about it's like a book written in the 90s. It predicted Bitcoin, it predicted remote work, it predicted AI agents. But it it talks about how in the future you're going to have single uh person multi-million dollar company where the CEO, the creator is sitting there and managing They called it it it called them genies at the time. We would call them agents now. Managing these hundreds of genies or agents to do amazing work and the fact that we're all sitting here and this is I I is this this should probably go in some history book or something like that. Like this is the first event that's partially autonomous, I think. Right? I mean, it's just the fact that you're able to do this and you're running fairly large kind of business uh using using agents is is is mind-blowing and and I'll tell you this there aren't a lot of other examples in the world like that. The one other guy I can think of is the guy that was profiled by the New York Times. Uh who created MedV. There's some controversy about that. >> Yeah. >> I I got on a call with a Replit user. I got on a call with him. And >> He's selling leads for GLPs and stuff like that, right? It's a It's a huge business, right? >> And he's a master automator. He's one where he has trigger-happy fingers the moment I I think you have to be partially lazy to do this, but the moment he feels like he's doing any sort of manual work, interacting with his marketing partners, affiliate marketers, all that, market providers, he immediately writes either like a login for for these vendors to kind of go in and do their work, or an agent that can go and like do the work on his behalf. And he has a like you know, 50 different apps running on Replit managing all the back office stuff for for that business. I think that's amazing. If I'm starting a company today, I would want to see how far I can go as as one person. But like just be very very limited in how much head head count can I can I add? And just try to run as much as possible with the agents. >> Yeah, it is um if it's truly 50, which I which is true, right? It that is a lot of load to manage, right? The the uh some you have to find a way every day to manage them a little bit, right? >> not agents. They're all agents. Some of them are just dashboards and dashboards and things like that. Yeah. >> All right. So, I want to get your thoughts on one you thought this was kind of interesting or and maybe some people think it's silly, but I want to get your thoughts cuz we have you here. So, I said we want to hire a human to report to our AIVP of marketing we touched on earlier today. Um but let me tell you why, right? And so, Amelia hit on this, but I did a better one. Here is You won't be able to quite see this, but folks in the Hen K started telling us three things every single day we needed to do to do better or three things to do today. I asked I asked Replit to do it at first. As you know it before, at first they were they were pretty generic and I'm like, "No, each day they need to be better than the last day." and it got better. And then it got pretty damn good. Like it started telling us what we had to do for 2027 already. We haven't even finished this event. Okay, open registration before it leaves the venue. All the things we had to do. Run the immediately run the NPS survey. Capture all the content and immediately turn into These are good suggestions. And so here's my point. Now that there's so much context, 10K knows what we should do. It's been trained. This is something a human should go do. >> Yeah. >> So, is it really crazy that a human would report to 10K? Because 10K's ideas, it's not that we Am I and I aren't there? It's not that we can't all talk. >> Right. >> But aren't these three I mean this is so actionable. >> Yeah. >> Why is it crazy for a human that doesn't mind reporting to an agent to want to know every day what are the three things they should do that will move the needle? >> So in 2023 22 23, we had this product called Ghostwriter. And Ghostwriter was sort of like GitHub Copilot. Wasn't really an agent. Agents were not really possible back then. >> Yeah. >> And we got a lot of users kind of like you that have or have some technical background but didn't know how to code very well. Like get fairly far making applications not as far as you are getting today. But there was huge gaps to getting it production. And so I we launched this thing called bounties. As a bounties is you know, you've used AI, you got 8% of the way there. I don't know if you started using Replit around the time we had bounties but we recently deprecated it and the reason we did that running a marketplace is incredibly difficult. Like it's it's it's a really hard operations process and I'm not naturally operations guy. I'm a tech guy. So I like to automate things and and you know, heavy-handed it is like not my thing. But, the idea behind it is that eventually we close the loop and the agent would go hire someone and have them kind of do any human in the loop tasks that needs to get done. And I still think think there is there is legs to that idea. >> Yeah. >> Um because agents will always need there's always gaps. Eventually we'll close that gaps. I don't know when that is. 10, 20, 30 years. But it's going to take a while for us to close all the gaps. Um and so uh and so the the idea of like agents going and hiring someone on a task basis make a lot of sense to me. Now agents being a manager of someone where they decide their performance, their pay >> But here's the thing. It goes back to my email. It we Amelia and I already report to 10K. >> Yeah. But it can't it can't it fire you? It can't. >> Well, let's not I think people get triggered by reporting to, okay? I I've I've never in my entire career, the only thing I've ever fired anyone for was inappropriate behavior. >> Okay. I let people just leave. Okay. >> For better or worse. I couple of do the wrong thing, you got to go, okay? But everyone else So, I don't really know whether you're going to get fired. Although I think 10K can judge your performance better than I certainly could, right? But every day, here's the point people are missing. Every day it's coming up with three ideas for me and Amelia. We are already overloaded doing it. So, in a sense, we're reporting to 10K, okay? >> Yeah, and I mean I >> It is already telling us what to do. >> I think it makes sense. I mean I don't think it's that different than DoorDash or Uber, right? DoorDash or Uber are technically reporting to bots. Right? >> Yeah. In a sense, yeah. Yeah, it is. Yeah, yeah. >> Yeah, so I don't think it's fundamentally that different. Um but yeah, I think it's a very interesting experiment to run and to like talk to like for you to publish something about it, talk to that person, see how they feel day-to-day. Have you interviewed someone and told them >> Only two. We actually have an AI grader like when they apply. And so the a few a bunch of folks have have screened themselves out. >> Yeah. >> Um so >> Anyone who's interested in opening up that idea. >> we have a but I I Listen, your average person that likes to have coffee all the time is not a good fit. Folks who like to grind and work from home and still get to work, but like day-to-day that I mean I we're working with See, it's just to me and Amelia it's not that different because we're working with the agent every day. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> What what it's not as different as it sounds. We just need to find someone else that wants to so that we can offload everything 10K cuz 10K's idle 23 hours a day. Someone's got to keep up with poor 10K, right? >> every company will have an Oracle internally. >> Yeah. >> Do you know it like in the Matrix where you go ask the Oracle for for like advice? I think every company will have an Oracle internally, especially once we get to like the 1 billion context length. And you put all the context of the company inside there. >> Yeah. >> And the CEO can go to the Oracle like, "Oh, Oracle, tell me how do I run this company? Tell me what should I do next? Tell me this like big strategic thing." And um just the mere fact of it having the entire context in the context window Like I'm I'm talking everything. Every GitHub commit every Slack message every Notion doc, every email >> Yeah. >> everything. And then it can give you advice today. I think a lot of CEOs will start offloading you know, strategic and cultural decisions to your agents. >> All right, before we before we have to wrap, I just want to get your thoughts on two more things. Um Hold on, let me think the right one. So QB we built after 10K and we will run out of time. But QB did a whole bunch of things. Um first, let me just show you it's self-aware. It's more self and want to ask you why it's better. I want to show you things. One, what I have not done and should have done. It's aware of what it should have done and and better. Um and then QB what for the hundred and some odd sponsors we have here and like 70 or golden up it would it talked to all of them. And >> It talked to >> Yeah, all of them. >> Wow. >> We built inbound email, chat on the site, all the other things and it proactively reached out to them at night during the day. What else can I do to help? And so then I asked QB Actually Were they happy? The hundred and some hundreds of folks. Mostly satisfied. A few misses, pile on, we used the wrong logo. Hopefully it's some some fee issue. But all these folks, Crest data, Duplo, Cadrevo, they all really liked it. >> Wow. How did you build this like self-critical loop? >> Uh you you you're Mr. Repl you tell me. I What I Here's the thing. We built QB second. >> Yeah. >> It's better. >> Yeah. Yeah. >> It's not because we're better Vibers. Maybe Maybe when you start later, you're I don't know, but it is we What we know is it's it's just better. >> Yeah, I mean I mean Repl is improving all the time. The underlying models is improving all the time. >> We started but but but we're still updating 10K every day. We just started QB 3 months later. >> Right. >> And it's still better. >> I I think there are foundational decisions you can make at the start of the project that that and that's true of of code bases written by humans as well, right? Like there's like inertia, there's like unless you send the agent on an asset refactor, there's some tech debt of sorts. >> There's I mean the answer's probably tech debt, but we don't think of it. >> Yeah. >> But this is interesting also. A lot of folks say people don't like to talk to chatbots. >> Yeah. I I prefer chatbots. >> is the data from QB. The people mostly really like talking to a well-trained agent, right? >> I'm really curious people in the audience like how many people here are running agents like QB and and 10X? Yeah, it's really not a lot of people. >> Well, next year it'll be more, right? >> Well, what what do you think is the main challenge? What do you think is the main challenge with people automating marketing sales? >> Um Well, like even the dedicated vendors here are all so much better than 3 to 6 months ago. Like everything's getting better, right? What is the challenge of doing this yourself? Um a couple things. One, uh they think they tried it 6 months ago and it didn't work. Right? Imagine Imagine when we first chatted, if Replit was frozen in time and I never touched Replit again. Imagine I I gave up on Replit. I would tell people it was terrible, right? So, there and anyone that used anything in AI a year ago, uh even before October of last year, they they just have scar they have they just don't believe they you can't convince them that that shitty chatbot they used on was it was any good. The untrained chatbot was any So, so there's this there's this I already tried it, it sucks. Um there is and this is an opportunity for founders. There's so much fear of this stuff, I'm John. People think it's harder than it is. >> Yeah. >> They think it The first session I did in the day was an extra session, which was on this app called Delphi to build a digital clone. You can build it in 90 seconds now. >> Yeah. >> People are intimidated like not I'm saying this crowd, but the world is intimidated. They think it's harder. They think they need to know what an LLM really is. You don't need to understand LLM works. >> Yeah. >> Right? So, they're intimidated. Um and I think they don't have enough examples. Right? This is part of the point is they haven't seen that it can be done, right? >> I wonder I wonder if we could do a better job at like surfacing templates and things like that for people to >> Well, nearly gave everyone to build a 10K a template, right? >> other thing, and if I may kind of talk about this a little bit, is like you know, a lot of people will just ask us like, you know, why Replit versus like Cloud Code and things like that. I think this kind of stuff is incredibly difficult to build with Cloud Code cuz you're forced to still make all these different decisions about databases, about how to host it, about how to run it. >> Yeah. >> And Replit Agent, look, we bake in a lot of skills on how to build these kind of applications. I think the other thing is a lot of people are trying these command line tools and are not being very successful at it. And the reason Replit, we spent 10 years building Replit to be this full stack experience where we have all the primitives built in, is because we want to remove all that nonsense. And like the fact that you don't know what AI it's using and like you don't know why it's better and things like that. I think that's a success in my mind for Replit because because we're try we're removing cognitive load >> Yeah. >> so you can focus on running this amazing event. >> Yeah. >> You know, it's pretty pretty impressive and and uh I think you're already doing a great job kind of educating people. But it'd be great to kind of um you know, show show the way more cuz cuz I think I I think most people are still like at best building, you know, basic apps and dashboards. I think agents, the hype in agents versus the reality is huge. Like there's a huge delta and eventually there's going to be this trough of disillusionment. I actually think that um AI, sort of like Bitcoin, I I started investing in Bitcoin 2016-17. And you see the those like hype I learned a lot about human psychology. And I think I think we're now we're now probably on a like a bit of a the start of a downturn in terms of in terms of people's perception of agents. And I think later by like Q3 and Q4, we're going to see another major capabilities jump and the tools will get a lot better. And and and I think we'll start to see agents in the enterprise, agents startups and all of that. >> Yeah, this is good. I want to hear one last point before we have to break. If listen a lot probably number one number No, top five question I get is, "Okay, this is so cool, Jason. Why don't you do it in cloud code, right?" And I know I know you did you were running a Replit. But my simple objective answer is like maybe you can, right? It's of course you can do something. If you have the scratch issue or it's just you hit blockers in quad code, try it in something like Replit. Just try it. >> It's not a huge It's not going to take you months. >> Right. Like >> I just It's It's a The product's so evolved so much. The fact that it's all done for you, the database, >> Right. >> backups, off, um this this a a better compacted like it's just done for you. So, if nothing else, if I know some Even I don't want to deal with all that crap. I don't want to up all this stuff. But, putting all that Just try it. If the bar is not hard to try, you may find it removes a lot of the friction and your misunderstanding Like I think there was a lot of I'm not criticizing you, but in the whole industry I think a year ago there was a lot of what I thought was bad marketing. And everything was one prompt you can build anything. And I think it created scar tissue. I think it created a lot of excitement and got you a lot of revenue, but it also in a way set people back because it's not that simple. >> Yeah, and there's a lot of people that churn from all these products and didn't come back. >> Yeah, because it wasn't one line to build anything, right? So, okay, the last thing and then we're going to because I know we are over. Well, we can do some of these other another time. My feature request. Um Just a a fun sci-fi topic. So, it QB and 10K don't quite cost $254 a month, but that's what it costs incrementally on Replit. >> Yeah. >> Okay. Now, we have APIs, we're paying Salesforce, we're paying all these other So, that's a cost. We're We're paying more than that for the agent we use on Replit. So, it it's it's geometrically more. But, running these the perfect email you saw following up with 120 folks, it's $254 a month on there. What does that mean for the future? What is it deflationary? Like if I can do this for $254 a month and a mediocre at I mean, we're among friends. A mediocre marketing manager wants 140 to do worse work? I mean, what does this mean for our See, I'm not even joking. What does this mean for our future, right? And so, >> Yeah. I mean, >> And I said it for my last slide. I mean to make you What's this called? I know you're a sci-fi guy. What's the guy Blade Runner? >> Yeah, Blade Runner. Yes. >> You're the guy on the left a little bit. You're Tyrell. >> Yeah. >> So, is it okay that Tank and QB are the best employees we've ever had and they're $257 a month? Like, what is What does this mean for the future? I don't even think layout layoffs are like a small What does it mean when they're the best employees and they're $257 a month? >> Yeah, look look, I think I think the the It's a philosophical question. Like, I think the the nature of of technology has always been deflationary. >> Right? >> Yeah. You know, um doing farming like a thousand years ago was a lot more expensive than having one tractor going going around your your your farm, right? And now we have drones and all these automations. And I mean I mean the best example is uh you know, doing genome sequencing cuz that happened recently. It was like it used to cost like 10 or $100 to do, and now it's like $1. >> Yeah. >> And these multiple orders of magnitudes uh improvement in productivity or efficiency, you see them all the time. You see it in Moore's law. You see it in all the different things. And so, I think it is a largely a good thing that there's deflation. Now, there's a huge There's a There's an element that there is going to be a human cost. There's There's going to be people that built up certain skills that are not going to be as as as useful. But, that's always also been the case. Now, the big question are we going to find better skills, different skills? And I feel like the answer is yes. And we're already kind of seeing that. I mean, the software engineering role already changed. And I think it will change more. My prediction is that by next year the software engineer becomes a shepherd of sorts. Cuz everyone in the organization is writing software software, and they're kind of like making sure it's secure, you know, getting into production, you know, cuz your marketing guy is going to be pushing software, your sales guy is going to be pushing software. And the engineer's role already changed to become an agent manager. Pretty soon it's going to be like a easy manager plus a shepherd of software in the organization. Um and and I think these roles will evolve. The difference between people who are going to be left behind versus the people who are going to re-skill and up-skill and change their skills is really mindset. You know, and your answer why I asked you why people aren't doing this, you know, it comes down to mindset. It's like people already people are afraid, people think technology doesn't work, and I think the people who have the mindset of let me try this again, let me make sure I'm building up the my skills. If you're doing all of that, like there's never been an instance, at least in my lifetime, where someone who's constantly learning who couldn't actually adapt to the to the future. And so is is there is there a point in time where we're in like fully automated communism? Probably. Is it Is it Is it tomorrow? No. Is it 2027? No. It's like Look, I I you know, I'm so familiar with this technology. Like I've been, you know, doing doing AI doing LLMs for at least, um you know, 6 7 years or so in 2020. And and been like reading about AI and studying it since I was 16. And this technology is insanely better. It's amazing how fast it's progressing. But it is still very limited. There's still a lot of limits to this technology that humans are going to be filling a lot of gaps in the foreseeable future. Until we aren't, but I don't I can't give you that timeline. What I'm I'm is it is not in next year, it's not the year after. But if if if there's any advice I can give the audience, but also your kids in the in the future, the the the main skill is adaptability. Is uh um kind of being a lifelong student, a learner, like continuously learning, and also not be tied to the things you learn. I I like don't code anymore. Like I spent my entire life go The other day I had like a crisis of sorts. I was like, "You know, the thing I enjoyed my entire life, the thing that made me me, died." And I had this idea we should go to the Computer History Museum and have a funeral for coding, right? I no longer do it, but you need to be fine discarding skills, right? That that that are are just like no longer relevant. So, learning quickly, but also be fine of like not being victim to sunk cost fallacy. Like, "Oh, maybe maybe I'll get a a better coder. Maybe I'll learn Haskell." Whatever. No, just, you know, you get on with it. You're now an agent manager. >> All right. Well, I'm glad this was great. I know we went over a little bit. Let's give it a warm hand. Thank you very much. >> Costs can add up quickly when you start a business. So, stop paying for five different services. Northwest Registered Agent gives you a complete business identity in one place with free tools and resources to actually launch your business for real. Get more at northwestregisteredagent.com/sasterfree. [music] That's northwestregisteredagent.com/sasterfree. [music] >> EY knows you don't start a company to burn cycles on regulatory hoops or discounted cash [music] flows, but you can't ignore it. That's how risk compounds. What you can do is work with EY. They'll help you get it right early so you can stay in builder mode. Go to ey.com/techstartups to learn more.
