# The Reddit Advantage - How to Steal Competitor Leads

Channel: Ross Simmonds (Foundation)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=MFpCZWbYong
Upload date: 2026-05-25

---

What's up, everybody? So, we're going to be diving into the most under-appreciated, under-recognized, underestimated opportunity when it comes to B2B in influencing your pipeline. That's right, I'm talking about Reddit. You might be familiar with the way that a lot of B2B agencies are approaching content and how they want to influence your pipeline. It looks like this. Let's write a bunch of blog posts. Let's hope they get influenced in Google. Let's drive a whole bunch of clicks, maybe. And then maybe let's convert. This is the old way. This is no longer the approach [music] that you need to take to thrive as a brand in today's market. We live in an AI-first world and that is why I want to talk about how you can influence the LLMs and ultimately drive pipeline on the back of a channel called [music] Reddit. Let's dive into it. So, first we have Reddit. On Reddit, you need to invest in your presence. That is ensuring that you're showing up in the conversations that your customers are having every single day. Right now, as you watch my face, there are people talking about your brand. They might be saying good things. They might be saying bad things. You can't control the fact that conversations are unfiltered on Reddit every single day, but you can influence them. You can influence them and shift the sentiment. How? By actually providing educational, engaging, entertaining, and empowering content in [music] Reddit. Right now, there are a handful of subreddits within your niche that if you compared reddit.com to your URL, you would find that they are showing up more frequently in the SERP. Yes, Google still matters. Yes, SEO still matters. But at the end of the day, we all need to recognize that Reddit is showing up more frequently in the SERP and ultimately in the LLMs. There is a higher win rate in reddit.com versus every high-priority keyword that most B2B SaaS companies are going after, and Reddit is winning more frequently than not. So, once you've established that presence, you then are going to benefit from the Google amplification. What does that mean? Well, Reddit happens to be the second most visible site on Google today. More than 595 million keywords are ranking that Reddit or is essentially the source for that content. Reddit as an appendage sees or [music] what's that word? Appendage? You know what I mean. When people are adding the word the modifier to their query, well, Reddit is being added by 20%. That's huge. People are going to Google and adding the word Reddit to their searches because [music] people want to hear from people. This is why there's been a 1,300% increase in Reddit's visibility directly in Google. Once you recognize that, we then need to recognize that the LLMs are training their data on Reddit. Has 5x five times the amount of citations in ChatGPT than other domains. It's the most cited domain on Perplexity by at 46% and it dominates high-intent prompts. What do I mean there? So, Foundation recently did this analysis where we looked at some of the top SaaS companies in the world and we analyzed [music] the highest commercial and transactional intent queries and guess who was showing up? Reddit. Once you recognize that, you might also start to see that Reddit is being cited frequently. If your brand is being mentioned in threads that are positive or negative, then it is likely that that sentiment, that story, and that language is going to show up in the answer [music] within Claude, within Perplexity, within Grok, within the channels that [music] your customers are using right now to make decisions. AI source and referral traffic from LLMs is up. You need to be thinking and tracking this regularly. And remember, it doesn't matter if people click on the link. What matters is whether or not the answer, the brand mention articulate you in the way that you want it to be mentioned. And then finally, last piece of the puzzle, folks, is pipeline. [music] We all want to pay the bills. We all live in this capitalist society, so let's thrive and let's move the needle [music] around pipeline. High-intent leads and traffic are being influenced [music] by the LLM. No, they might not go from the LLM directly to your site, but they're learning about you. They're understanding your product and how you fit into their solution, and they are having conversations that are tailored to them that is ultimately being influenced by the Reddit presence that you've invested in, and that's creating shorter sales cycles. It's giving you pipeline [music] that you can now actually clearly see when you are asking them to attribute it to a certain source. [music] Or, maybe you are actually just tracking referral traffic there, but you can actually start to measure your LLM [music] impact on pipeline because B2B buyers love LLMs. Folks, the old way is no longer the only way. You need to [music] embrace this idea of embracing Reddit, which influence LLMs, which influences your pipeline, and if you [music] do that, you will be able to win in this new AI.
