# 5 Quick Ways to Fix Your B2B Marketing Tracking

Channel: Passetto (@PassettoGTM)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=E97ucNjBQK0
Upload date: 2026-04-20

---

Most B2B marketing teams are sitting on a gold mine of data in their CRM and marketing automation platform, but they struggle to actually one, get their hands on it, and two, make sense of it. They're stitching together reports from different tools, dumping everything into spreadsheets, and still can't answer the most basic questions like, what's actually creating our best quality pipeline, and where are we just wasting marketing budget? I've seen CMOs and VPs of marketing lose all credibility and trust overnight just because of how complicated marketing measurement is. The answer is never straightforward. And when pipeline and revenue is down, boards and leadership do not have time to waste while marketing leaders go fix their performance and their data problems. And the frustrating part is that these fixes, they're not always complicated. These are not massive RevOps projects that take 6 months to implement, but there are very common issues in the data foundation that typically prevent marketing leaders from seeing data that will support them in their need to be strategic in their decision-making. And unless you identify what those are, you may continue to keep spinning your wheels to get the answers you really need. And I want to help you get ahead of that before they cost you a bad quarter or before you're left 3 months from now still with the same questions unanswered. Having worked with hundreds of CMOs and VPs of marketing, data issues are always the core inhibitor to strong marketing performance. As the world of marketing continues to evolve, getting the data you need has never been more important than it is today. So, in this video, I'm going to walk you through five quick data foundation essentials that every B2B marketing leader should have in place. These are best practices that most companies overlook, and they will immediately give you better visibility into where your pipeline is actually coming from and marketing's impact across the buyer journey from end to end. All right, let's get into it. Priority number one, associate contacts to your opportunities. This is probably the most overlooked best practice in B2B marketing and it's the foundation for everything else. Every marketer should have a vested interest in having contacts associated to an opportunity record inside the CRM. What happens at most companies is that opportunities either have one contact, the main point of contact, or sometimes nobody at all because the account has the contacts. But, those contacts are just sitting at the account level without ever being tied to a specific deal. The problem is that you can't see who's actually involved in the buying decision process. This matters especially if you have a mid-market or enterprise motion. As you move up market and your deals get larger and more complex, you're almost always going to have more than one person involved in the buying decision. You might have three to five and sometimes even eight or more decision-makers on a multi-threaded deal. You have a technical buyer, somebody in legal, somebody in procurement, the core decision-makers, other stakeholders. But, as a marketer, you want to know who those people are, what their role is, and what function they sit in. And here's where it gets really strategically valuable for you and your marketing team because once you can actually see who's sitting on that buying committee, you can start connecting the dots between your marketing. How are these different personas actually engaging with what we're putting out in the market? What content are they consuming on their path to becoming a customer? And where exactly in that journey are they consuming it? That intel right there is gold. It's not just gold for your demand gen team, but for folks like your product marketers, too, because now you can stop guessing. You can actually start building with intention and meeting each stakeholder with the right message and materials at exactly the right time. Build persona-specific messaging, launching campaigns that actually speak to each stakeholder to support pipeline acceleration. And if you're running any sort of ABM motion, this isn't a nice-to-have. This is absolutely essential. And to give you a sense of how common this problem is, our customers at Pexip are always really shocked when we do any sort of an analysis and tell them that 50 to 60, sometimes even larger, percentage of their opportunities don't have a single contact associated with them. That means one, you don't have data to understand who's involved in the buying committee, and two, you don't have a clear way to measure marketing engagement during an active sales cycle, either. Without this, most companies just send umbrella blanket messaging to everybody because they don't have a clear picture of who they're actually marketing to. The disconnect between sales and marketing is a big part of the problem here. Your sales team probably knows who they're multi-threading to for each deal. Likely it's in their heads or in other places outside of the CRM. Maybe it's in Gong or LinkedIn Sales Navigator, or they just have a list that lives somewhere, an Excel spreadsheet of who they're interacting with. And they know who they're trying to get to, but the marketing team typically doesn't have that information because it's not connected to a place where marketing can access it. So, marketing has no idea what kind of coverage they currently have across the buying committee, and more specifically, what campaigns or tactics are effective in helping to close opportunities. It's not enough in 2026 to just market blindly. The leaders who are getting ahead of this are the ones who are understanding what people are doing and filtering on dimensions like market segment or industry or even persona of the buying committee members. Now, most people and most teams will see adding contacts to opportunities as an administrative burden and a distraction, and they're not wrong. It does take effort, but it's important intelligence that's critical to overall growth, so it's really worth getting that right. That's why we recommend setting up automations to do this for you. There are different ways to automate the association of contacts to opportunities and even the creation of contacts and then adding them to opportunities. Or, you can work with somebody like Bisato. We have our own a SAS solution that goes out and finds the contacts associated with opportunities by looking at things like meetings, sales activities, and does this for you, so you can see the insight without having to do the legwork or getting RevOps to help you. Either way, especially if you're a low-volume business with high ACV deals, if you're closing something like 20 deals a quarter, there's absolutely no excuse not to have this in place. All right, priority number two, track opportunity type. For example, new business versus expansion. So, now that you've got contacts on your opportunities, the next thing to fix is making sure that you can actually tell the difference between a new business deal or other deals, like an expansion or an upsell or a restart or even what we call a boomerang deal, which is formerly a closed lost deal that came back into the funnel as a new opportunity. A lot of companies just lump everything together, and I mean everything. This includes, too, their prospecting pipeline, the accounts that they're actively targeting, and they pull it all into one opportunity pipeline. And sometimes even prematurely create opportunities when they should have never been an opportunity at all. And when you do that, you lose the ability to consistently know what is new business, and in many cases, even a qualified opportunity. It sounds pretty immature, but you'd be surprised how often we see this. And it's important because it can completely skew the core metrics that you need to know as a marketing leader and that your entire GTM needs to know. If you're prematurely creating opportunities to reflect target accounts that your sales team is working, this will totally throw off your pipeline win rate and your sales cycle length, requiring you to do extra gymnastics when you need to go run reports. Another example is that if you don't properly track opportunity types by new logo versus a renewal, you'll have blended metrics that don't give you an accurate lens around pipeline velocity because those are two very different deal types with two very different pipeline velocity dynamics. And one more thing, when you don't track opportunity types and run that data back to the marketing automation platform, you run the risk of assuming that all leads created and MQLs are new business, but you'd be surprised how many leads and hand raisers already belong to existing customer accounts. Marketing has no visibility into that and where those individuals get counted as MQLs when they shouldn't, which is misleading information for both marketing and the entire organization. So, if you can't segment your contacts and your opportunities by what type of account or customer they are, and then analyze your marketing lead activity accordingly, like your conversion rates or your cost metrics or your pipeline numbers, all of it gets thrown into one ginormous bucket and then can totally mislead your team and your decision making. Now, there's also a data routing problem that comes with this and we're going to talk about this later, but because of the messy black box that is pipeline creation, if somebody comes into your marketing automation platform as a lead, they may just sit there. But, if that person is a current customer and also a new contact to the database, the CSM on that account might not ever see it or know that some sort of meaningful marketing activity happened with that person on their account that they're responsible for. So, you need to be able to track that because it's still a unique life cycle for that person. It's just that where it needs to go and who it needs to get routed to really depends on whether it's a new business account or an existing opportunity already closed. How to do this in practice is to make sure your team establishes a bidirectional sync between your a marketing automation platform and your CRM. Our stance is that we want both systems of records to match so that you can avoid all of these problems and complexities of what I'm explaining right now. If you're watching this and realizing that your team has a lot of these similar data gaps, it's more common than you think. Most companies have their data living in multiple places and on top of that, they have data gaps just like the ones I mentioned. We see it all of the time. At AppAceto, we have a 14-day marketing measurement sprint where we use our technology to stitch all of that data together and show you what you've never been able to see on your own and what would be very difficult to stitch together on your own. So, if you want visibility into some of the things that we're talking about in this video that don't require a bunch of RevOps fixes, click the link in the description to book a call and we'll walk you through how it works. Now, back to the video. Priority number three is to segment your pipeline properly. So, once you can separate new business from expansion, the next step is getting more specific with how you segment your pipeline data overall. This is going to look different depending on your business, but there are a few core areas of segmentation that really, really matter for marketing and for decision-making and investment allocation. Most CMOs are struggling with the basic, right? And they often look at marketing performance holistically and overall and pretty rudimentarily, which means there's a lot of important nuance in the data that's typically hidden in plain sight. When you can understand marketing performance from different angles and dimensions, that's when you and your board sees you as a strategic leader because you can surface insights that show you where the business is really strong and where it's weaker and where marketing's role has the strongest impact and the most opportunity for improvement. The first way you want to segment your data is by product line segmentation. If you sell on multiple SaaS products, you absolutely want that tracked on the opportunity record as a specific field and not in the opportunity name. You need to be able to segment your marketing measurement and impact by those different product lines because not all of your marketing is going to perform the same across each one. The second thing here is regional segmentation. Things like North America versus EMEA versus APAC is critical to look at when you're looking at not only just pipeline, but what's actually driving pipeline in each of those different regional markets. Most companies do track this to some degree and might not know their overall pipeline and revenue numbers by Geo. But where CMOs can have an added advantage is understanding what's driving pipeline creation in each region and how top of funnel engagement across each one varies. We see this all the time where paid search might be really effective in one market but negligible in another. So for example, one European company that we did a marketing audit for was really surprised to learn how much greater the volume of website hand raisers was for their Germany market. And then even more surprised to understand the downstream outcomes of those hand raisers versus other markets. Conversion to pipeline was way stronger, win rate was way higher, and the overall quarter over quarter pipeline and revenue was also just performing better. The trend was better and they were closing way more deals and faster and bigger deals in that market from hand raisers versus other markets. There are dynamics like brand maturity and even market penetration across different Geos that can really impact your marketing metrics. Bundle all of those performance metrics together, you really lose that layer of insight that shows you where your marketing motion is strong and what needs attention and where the biggest opportunities are. All right, third and this is one that usually does not get tracked well ever is market segment. Whether you're selling into an SMB market or mid market or even enterprise, whether it's public companies, private companies or even not for profits. A lot of companies try to back into this using the opportunity amount field, which is just extra gymnastics that makes it harder than it needs to be. Best practice here is to enrich this at the account level, whether that's by employee size or ARR or whatever you choose to segment by in your business. Then you need to reference that at the opportunity level. Similar to the last example I shared, companies might be really surprised to learn what different motions are driving different outcomes depending on the market segment. Another company we ran an audit for was optimizing heavily for lead gen to realize that all of their budget was only really supporting the smallest segment in their business. Although it drove higher win rates, it contributed very little to actual revenue. Larger markets weren't getting any marketing penetration at any point in the journey. So, for companies who are very strategically trying to move up market, this insight is huge because pipeline acceleration programs ran by marketing are typically very underutilized. Typically because leadership just assumes and also insists that marketing needs to be top of funnel focused. Go get leads to build pipeline. When really, their greatest role might actually be somewhere else. This type of insight is required for smart decision-making and smart investment allocation. This is where it gets really interesting from a marketing leadership perspective. marketing effort or even GTM motion is created equal across different segments, geos, product lines, etc. So, you might find that your marketing impact is very strong in your SMB market, but those deals are small and they're not going to drive the kind of revenue scale the business might be strategically focused on generating. And meanwhile, in your enterprise segment where your business is really focused on scaling, your marketing motion might be much weaker. And that's exactly where the business needs you most, but being able to show up with that kind of insight is what makes you a more effective marketing leader and what drives real value for the business overall. One more thing on segmentation is having a way to denote procurement type. If your company selling into the public sector, for example, or anywhere where your prospective customers run a public tender process, it's really important to track if the opportunity is in some sort of structured bid situation or RFP process. It could be a simple field or even a pick list where you can select what the procurement type is. Either way, some way to capture how the procurement process will work for that opportunity is critical to know. And let me explain why. So, if you're working in public sector, right? You're selling to public sector and you have RFP deals, for example, they have very different dynamics than a direct sale. And you might have both in your motion. Those RFP deals are longer or more complex. And if you're not segmenting them out or analyzing them separately, they'll quietly skew all of your GTM metrics. Your win rate, your sales cycle length, all of your benchmarks, all of it. It just gets thrown off. And from a marketing perspective, there's another really important reason to care. You want to understand how those prospects are doing their research before or even during the RFP process. Especially if those people are doing research months in advance. What are they engaging with? How are they showing up to you? Because that's a very different buyer journey than your typical direct sale deal. Now, yes, segmentation comes with a lot of moving parts. But, for most marketing leaders, it comes down to identifying the two to three, maybe it's just one, that really, really matter. If you get those right, you will have the insight you need to make smarter decisions and show up to your board meeting way more strategically. There's really no shortage of ways to slice your data, but chasing every dimension is a trap. The leaders that get this right are laser-focused on the few that they know are going to move the needle for the business. Priority number four, clean up your UTMs and your campaign structure. Now, shifting from the CRM side of things to the marketing side, the next fix is really UTMs and campaign tracking. Believe it or not, UTMs are so overlooked and the result is a lot of gaps in the channel data that should be telling you what drove a particular marketing touch to happen in the first place. So, when your UTMs are messy, incomplete, or even inconsistently used, you end up with a bunch of unknowns in your web session tracking, which means you cannot connect marketing activity to what's actually happening downstream. And if you're putting a lot of money into different channels, well, you want to be able to track that reliably. The key here is before adopting anything new, take the time to establish a proper UTM framework, and make sure that it's being adopted consistently and across the board 100% of the time. Companies that actually prioritize this are in a good position because they ultimately have a really great aperture of their channel performance, which is extremely difficult to track in the first place, given that we already have a million blind spots with all of the channels that can't be cleanly tracked. Even more critical now in the age of dark SEO, which we're starting to see a lot more of with the rise of zero-click search, and search happening inside of LLMs as well. Now, on the campaign side, it's all about structure and consistency, and making sure that you're tracking everything about that campaign with the right level of detail. So, in Salesforce, for example, you can have a campaign type, an in-person event, a trade show, a webinar, whatever it is, a lot of companies don't use campaign types. And on top of that, they have completely unstructured campaign naming, which makes it almost impossible to do any kind of retroactive marketing analysis around campaign performance or even campaign ROI for different campaign types. Oftentimes, what happens is that companies have a very hard time looking back at anything historical with the inability to know what campaigns are what, when they happened, it gets very, very messy. And so, for this, what you need is a campaign hierarchy, parent campaigns, child campaigns, and being consistent with how you track and organize your campaigns. And you need to understand the status of your campaign members as well. The statuses matter more than people think because the default campaign member status in Salesforce are literally just sent and responded, which doesn't tell you anything meaningful when you want to retroactively go back and understand what people did. So, if you create a campaign for an event, for example, what you should be doing is using custom statuses like registered, attended, no show, hand raiser, and so on. There's a lot of nuance in campaign execution and even campaign performance that can get captured in the campaign member statuses, but most companies don't track it consistently. They miss stuff or they just use the default statuses, which makes it really hard to do any sort of sophisticated measurement, and the person in the team that will suffer the most from this more than anybody else is marketing. So, it's worth the time and attention to detail required to get it right. As I've always said, marketing is already at a disadvantage because so much of what matters in marketing is so hard to measure, and the last thing you want to do is show up to a board meeting or show up to your leadership team unprepared or unable to explain your impact. Priority number five, set up bi-directional sync rules between CRM and your marketing automation platform. This last fix ties everything together, so it's really important to get it right because if not, it can hold back your entire marketing operation. And it's something we previously spoke about earlier in this video, so now I'm going to get into it in more detail. If you're running your CRM in Salesforce, for example, and your marketing automation is in HubSpot, you need a bi-directional sync between the two to make sure they're talking to one another. A lot of companies don't set this up properly, which means once an opportunity is created in Salesforce or new contacts get added manually to an opportunity record in Salesforce, that information doesn't flow back to the platform where marketing is doing all of their execution, their emails, and their tracking. Here's what that actually looks like when it breaks down in practice. So, when a lead or contact's status changes to become an opportunity in CRM or even a customer, and that data doesn't flow back to HubSpot or your marketing automation platform, that lead keeps getting your top of funnel nurture emails when they should be moving to a different marketing stage. If somebody is in consideration or has already become a customer, they shouldn't be getting the same content as somebody who just filled out a form for the first time. Without that sync, marketing has no way of knowing where somebody is in the buying process and as a result, your database gets a lot of blanket unpersonalized content that is far too removed from where they're actually at in the buying process. In my opinion, email is one of the most powerful tools and also one of the most underutilized or poorly utilized when it comes to driving engagement. AKA, you need accurate data about the contacts that you're marketing to in the system that you execute your marketing in. Specifically, if that contact in Salesforce has a corresponding lead record. But let's talk about the other possible scenario. So, without a bidirectional sync between your CRM and MAP, your opportunity contacts don't even get your marketing material if they don't have a corresponding lead record in your marketing automation platform. It would also mean that their marketing engagement would be tracked anonymously and then marketing can't effectively measure the ROI of what they're doing against pipeline and revenue. One thing we see almost 90% of the time or more when we work with our customers is that marketing engagement looks very low for opportunities once they're in an active sales cycle. Typically, what happens is when we dig deeper, what we see is that a vast majority of CRM contacts don't have a record in the marketing automation platform. This means that we instantly lose visibility into their marketing engagement because it might be tracked anonymously in HubSpot. And it's possible that their engagement is also low because they're not receiving any marketing. Any of these situations I just explained reinforce the need to make sure that your CRM and marketing automation platform are talking to one another. Speaking of engagement, this is also where lifecycle marketing comes in and also something that's massively underutilized. Most marketing teams only care about pipeline creation. Once a lead becomes an opportunity, that person no longer falls within the purview of marketing. But there's a huge opportunity when it comes to expansion, renewal, and preventing churn that marketing is almost never scored or measured against. And you can't do that effectively if your CRM data isn't flowing back to your marketing automation platform. The bigger picture here is about marketing having access to revenue insights. Your marketing team shouldn't be stuck in a marketing automation platform without any visibility into what's happening in the pipeline. They need access to the CRM pipeline data. They need their tracking systems to correspond to pipeline creation and revenue. And pipeline movement should sync back to your marketing platform so that marketing can actually do things and market to people based on where somebody is in the sales cycle or in their customer journey. All of those experiences in the journey are very, very different and marketing has a huge opportunity to play in speaking to the people where they're at. If teams can get this simple thing right, they can have so much more leverage when it comes to pipeline acceleration and even customer retention. But for many companies, those things are afterthoughts. Now, if you're thinking about your own tracking setup and realizing that "Hey, we have some gaps." Well, that's exactly what we help B2B SaaS companies figure out. In just 2 weeks, our marketing measurement sprint gives you a really complete picture of what's actually creating pipeline, what's underperforming, and what you would need to go fix in your own systems to be able to get those answers on an ongoing basis without needing to do a bunch of gymnastics. So, if you want that clarity, click the link in the description to book a call. We'll walk you through how it works. We'll see if you're a fit and we'll go from there. Again, it's the first link below. And if you want to see the nine metrics every marketing team should be tracking, then watch this video next.
