# How Marketing Leaders are Thinking About AEO

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=cZS21pi67ck
Upload date: 2026-02-25

---

At the beginning of the year, I sat down with our SEO agency and I'm like, I need a plan, a literal plan for how we're going to address AEO. And at the time, I didn't know what to call it, AI stuff. So, we sat down and we started figuring out together with our SEO agency, who maybe didn't have this expertise at that moment, like how we were going to address this for the year. And the first thing was to get a handle on our traffic. And so, we looked at all of our traffic, figured out what was coming from LLM that we could measure. and then maybe what wasn't attributable. And what we discovered is that the traffic isn't even a top five channel for us. So we didn't necessarily have to worry about right like everything wasn't completely falling for us. But that said, we did want to make sure that we were taking advantage of Greenfield. So I felt very strongly in the beginning of the year that there was an opportunity for us to grab Greenfield from our competitors because if we just focused on it and thought about what the opportunity was. So the way that we did that was simply lay out what the top prompts were for us that mattered to our buyers and then track the position over time. And we had to go find software to help us do that. We had to figure out dashboards for what that might look like. And what we realized is that much of the same work that we were doing for SEO applied for AEO and that what we should focus on was not just driving traffic but making sure that we were represented appropriately. name is Dave Ghart. I am the founder of Exit 5. Exit 5 is the top community for B2B marketers. And twice a month, we do these Exit 5 live sessions. I usually say, "Don't you dare call them a webinar, but I've already broken that rule." And um they're a lot of fun. People like them because we bring on subject matter experts to go deep in a particular topic. This uh topic is probably the hottest topic in marketing. Well, I'd say the newer thing that seems even hotter, which I cannot does anybody feel this way. I go anywhere online and all I can see is cloud code right now. That's just my answer to any any problem in life is just cloud code. But separate from that, it's um it's AI, AI and SEO, AEO. and we pulled together a panel of marketing leaders to uh from three different companies, three different industries, three different stages to talk about what they've learned over the last year because we want to take you beyond the hype. We want to go and help you separate the signal from the noise from all the stuff you see on LinkedIn that makes me feel so completely inadequate and dumb and I'm not doing enough with AI to let's actually bring some actual marketing leaders and hear about what they're doing inside of their company. So, we're going to get get to that in a minute. I'm going to bring up the panel. Um, if you could just go in the chat right now, I want to know why did you I want to know where you're right where where where you are. And I also want to know why did you take the time out of this day to come session. So like you know I'm Dave in Vermont. I came here because I still don't really know what I should be doing with AEO. Um those are really helpful for us and it's just good to see some some names in here. And then um also during this session today the chat is honestly one of the best parts. So, you're all marketers, be in there, ask questions, help each other, uh, push back, give us ideas of questions you want to you want to hear us dig into. And then, um, real quick before we get started, I just want to give a shout out to Web Flow. Um, they are our sponsor for this session. And a lot of us marketers right now, we're dealing with the same reality, which is smaller teams, tighter budget, but the same pressure to grow pipeline. A amen to that, right? And the website is still expected to carry a lot of the load. The bar has changed, too. It's not enough just for your site to look good. It actually has to perform for not only humans, but now these LLMs. Is there going to be a world, by the way, where like we have these agents that do B2B buying for us? That that is that is a possible theory. And um that's where Web Flow comes in. It's a website platform that lets you build, manage, and optimize your site in one place without having to wait on developers or duct taping together a bunch of tools. Um I can even log in and do stuff, which is amazing. Their platform makes it easy for you to test and personalize pages. Optimize for SEO and AEO and move faster while staying on brand. Speaking from experience, we are constantly tweaking the Exit 5 site, which by the way runs on Web Flow, which is really cool. Um, and it's made it really easy. Gives us a flexibility across our whole team. So, go and check it out. Thank you to Web Flow for sponsoring this session. Good taste in in uh being in front of the right marketers and uh I'm excited to to be here today talking about this topic. So, without further ado, Erin. Anyway, all right. So, uh enough enough of my small talk. Let's get into let's go around the room. um quick intro and then I got my first question lined up for you. So um who are you? Explain uh what does your company do so we can get a a sense of the the stage and size and and and your mission and let's go Marcy Claire Dave. >> Great. Thanks for having me. Longtime listener first Dave. Um >> I was hoping you were going to say something like that. Thank you. >> Uh so my name is Marcy Kilmer. I'm CMO at Eagle View. I've been with Eagle View now five years which I think is a milestone in of itself for any marketer. What we sell is aerial imagery and data extracted from tree and we sell it to uh lots of different industries namely roofing, insurance carriers, government agencies and so forth. And so my job as a marketer is extremely complicated to understand all of those industries especially when previous industries were like hot dogs. So had to really dig deep to understand these industries. But thanks for having me. >> And I am Claire Schmidt. I'm head of marketing and communications at Piedmont Global and we are a strategic globalization organization and Dave told me that I had to intro this simply so I'm going to take a stab at that. Um, but we have a very complex buyer journey um from language access and education all the way to helping organizations expand into new markets, helping them incorporate AI into their cross-cultural workflows. I like to explain it or healthcare staffing. I missed that one. That's a that's a new offering for us this year. Um I like to say anywhere there's a component of cross-cultural operations for our clients, we make it easier for them. So whether that's across the globe or across the street at you know in a healthcare setting where they have multilingual um customers or if they're expanding into a new market like Nairobi. >> Can you share the note that you shared behind the scenes about your daughter texting you? So, this is the first time that I've been on a totally not a webinar. And my daughter, who is a sophomore in college studying engineering, texted me like five minutes beforehand to be like, "Good luck and I hope you're not nervous." So, >> well, I mean, that story warmed my heart. I'll tell you, but the version that I said, you know, in the green room as well, I shared I have a daughter who's in college in two lane and I shared our latest advertising campaign with her uh yesterday and her text back to me was, "Hey, looks good. Cool. But can I start in the next one that you create?" And I thought, well, that's a that that's a dream job when you can have your kid, you know, kind of lobby to be your creative talent next. I I heard I heard a story actually Ben Affleck was talking about watching a movie with his kids and it was like one of the best mo you uh one of the best movies of all time and he's like yeah it's pretty good. I think I think you should really hire like some of the Tik Tok directors though to like you know help help make the the cuts for this and he's like >> all right Dave who are you who are you man CMO at Web Flow >> CMO at Web Flow I've been a marketer for about 20 uh years or so. I've been in seat over here for about seven months. you did a great job, Dave Gearhart, and and uh and sort of the table read of of what we do. Thank you. >> Um I'll just uh uh sort of expound on that, which is, you know, we're classically known as a platform that helps uh companies build amazing uh brand forward and growth forward uh websites, but as channels fragment uh especially on the web, uh we're increasingly being used to think about, you know, us as a central part of the web marketing stack. Uh so AI answer engine optimization all of these topics are are are salient to the audience over here and we talk to customers about it all the time. So thanks for having me. >> I'm h I'm happy to do this. I think the one of the lines that we had is like and this is the thing that's been that's coming up a lot is you know you're writing for two audiences now which is humans and LLMs. My question I'm not an expert in this area at all and I I hope we can get into this today is like how much of that is different than writing for say say Google. Um, but I want to start off here. Uh, we we pitched this as like getting into the weeds, sharing what real marketing leaders are really doing. So, tell me over the past year, let let's rewind, you know, 12 months ago, maybe 14 months ago, Thanksgiving of last year, you're heading into 2025. It's obvious that um things are shifting with search. I noticed it within the last year or so. You know, my default is not even a Google search anymore. It's it's I'm talking to Gemini on my phone. I'm talking to Chat GBT. And so I'm curious about each of you um inside of your companies. What have you learned about uh AEO over the last year? What's changed? And then maybe how is this different than how you're thinking about ranking for for Google? Um Dave, I I'll give that one back to you on this one to start. Like especially at Web Flow being a website company, I'm sure you you've had to have some hard questions about having strong opinions here. So I'm just curious uh what what your marketing team is thinking about. >> Yeah. Well, I mean, I I'm very fortunate to work with what I consider really an all-star marketing team, and yet I think many marketing teams kind of suffer from the same thing, which is increasingly siloed activity um inside the team. Lots of specialties uh but not a lot of sort of like how do we integrate our our work together? And it really comes to the head when you think about, you know, things like AI and answered um engine optimization. There's the stuff that you can do to optimize your website and your web experience such that both humans and agents can do a great job at reading and understanding your brand and your offering. And yet there's also the the how you do the work. And today I think the thing that has changed for for me in my outlook is the need to be integrated in approach is now paramount. like we have to be integrated. Everything needs to like I I tell my team everything integrated all the time. Uh which is to think about the entire channel strategy and the website as a component of your web marketing channel approach. >> When you say like everything in integrated, can you give me a specific example? So like I understand from like a messaging standpoint, we got this brand campaign, we want this message to be true across all of our channels, but what does that mean for the team? >> Yeah, what I mean is is sort of integrated thinking. Um, and I'll paraphrase um, Alex Schultz. He's the the the the CMO at at Facebook or Meta right now. He recently came out with a book and one of the central premises of the book that really landed with me is the technology is is changing like the tools are changing but the principles of marketing are the same. And you know some people say like the funnel is dead. I actually think the funnel is a really great framework for us to think about and as simple as it sounds how as a marketing team uh because it is a team sport how you move your audience from awareness to consideration to conversion etc etc is important so when I think about everything integrated all the time I mean actually taking that fullfunnel view of everything that we do >> are you measuring the full funnel view >> a great question oh I like the I like the the dialogue between all of this. This is going to be a lot of fun. Um, yes. I think the the challenge that I think a lot of teams particularly in marketing face is there's so much data in front of us. >> The question isn't are you measuring it, but what what signals should you look at and how deeply should you look at all of them? And so one of the things that I talk to to our team a lot about and then when I talk to customers is the importance of really establishing what your northstar goal is for any integrated campaign and really assigning a metric or two based on that goal and then using all other you know sort of uh data points as telemetry to understand whether you're making progress towards that goal. >> Marcy want to talk talk about what what you've what you've learned over the last year. >> Okay. So when I think about what happened in the last year, it's kind of bananas because so much has happened. Um, so my role is is twofold. So I have to deliver revenue for Eagle View. I also have to manage our relationship with the board. So there's sort of twofold things that I'm trying to manage at the same time. At the beginning of the year, I sat down with our SEO agency and I'm like, I need a plan, like a literal plan for how we're going to address um AEO. And at the time, I didn't know what to call it, AI stuff. AIO, I don't know, GEO, agent, what are we calling it? If we can align at this webinar live session on what we're calling it, I think that's a great outcome for us. Um, so we sat down and we started figuring out together with our SEO agency who maybe didn't have this expertise at that moment like how we were going to address this for the year. And the first thing was to get a handle on our traffic. Um, and so we looked at all of our traffic, figured out what was coming from LLM um, that we could measure um, and then maybe what wasn't attributable. And what we discovered is that the traffic isn't even a top five channel for us. So, um, so that we didn't necessarily have to worry about, right? Like everything wasn't completely falling for us. Um, but that said, we did want to make sure that we were taking advantage of Greenfield. So, I felt very strongly in the beginning of the year that there was an opportunity for us to grab Greenfield from our competitors because if we just focused on it and thought about what the opportunity was. And so the way that we did that was simply lay out what the top uh prompts were for us that mattered to our buyers and then track the position over time. And we had to go find software to help us do that. We had to figure out dashboards for what that might look like. Um and what we realized is that much of the same work that we were doing for SEO applied um for AEO. um and that what we should focus on was not just driving traffic but making sure that we were represented appropriately in LMS. So, was it less about like, hey, we we want to book an incremental, you know, I don't I don't know how your revenue function works, but let's just call it like sales meetings. We we want 10 more sales meetings, you know, this quarter. Was it less about that and more of like cuz you talked about green field. It kind of seems like in my mind it was like you you're taking a bet on like this is where this is going. I'm not going to tie this I don't need to tie this directly back to sales right now, but it does seem like we should start to be we should start to plant a flag here because we want to influence how these, you know, LLM think. It's like being early on in search. You were the only company that had a blog about a certain topic in 2006. Like you probably ranked for those keywords. Is it >> Exactly. Okay. Well, so it was like what are some of the tactics that we can do to to take all of the positions? And it ranged right from like what could potentially be black hat methodologies to standard methodologies. Um and and so we decided, you know, we're not going to do any black hat stuff. >> Wait, can you can you can you actually dive into that? So like what what would be what what were some of what are some of the standard plays to run and then like what would be some of the black hat stuff? >> Standard play would be writing a blog addressing a topic and many topics around a topic. standard SEO stuff. >> Did they say like writing that blog, does that change because you want to rank in LLM's verse Google or is it just write the same blog, the same timeless principles like Dave mentioned apply of what what a good article is? >> I think the same timeless principles apply that could be debated um for different for different things and you could look at different LLMs too, right? So like Chat GPD for us is a highest per highest traffic LLM versus like a clot or perplexity. I don't know if that's true for all businesses. Um, but that's what that's what we looked at. A black hat um tactic could be um you can pay agencies to go and pay off um the sources. So you can for Reddit for example, you can change your responses. So if there's a thread, >> everyone's like writing this down. >> It's possible. There's truth and advertising problems though, so you need to think consider that. We do not do that. Just for the record. >> No, no, I'm just I'm just giving you [ __ ] It's good. >> But you could also sponsor a listical, which is a heavily sourced um uh source for LMS as well. So, anything that you can do to change sort of the the sources that result in the prompts that you're tracking um to favor your brand is is something you can do. >> Sorry. Are are we back to like writing listicles again? Like if I own >> I know, but someone else writes a listical, you can pay them to put you on top. >> Got it. Okay. I I want to I want to I just want to get I want to get Claire in here and then I want to come back to some of the specific cuz people love the specifics. So you mentioned like, hey, we worked with this agency. Like I want to know like what did you talk to them about? How did you how did you set goals around this? What are the actual tactics? You mentioned software and tools. I want to I want to dive come back to that in a second, but you know, Claire, I know you have some opinions on this and um what have you learned over last year? Yeah, and I was going to say, yes, we are back to writing listicles. >> Well, like everything's back. PR is back. I started my career in PR and I wrote this thing about uh LinkedIn and PR this morning. And so, someone's like, "So, should we start putting, you know, our press releases out on like PR Newswire again?" Like, is that a tactic? Everything. >> I mean, you know, it's all bets are off, but um I I still think though, and I'm going to go back to something Dave Sear said, is that the principles haven't changed as much as the surface has. Like, that's the way I think about it. That's the way I instructed the team is in terms of what I've learned over the last year. And I said yesterday, I think in our call, like our prep call that, you know, I feel behind the behind the a ball a little because of, you know, we didn't really start paying attention to this as much until Q4 cuz we had the rebrand that we launched September 30th and Dave was like, I think we're all new to the game wherever we are. So, some of the stuff that, you know, Marcy talked about, we aren't as far along on that. So, we're But I think I still I still think I've held these principles sort of all this year as I've been watching all of the, you know, fads and the trends and people saying, "Oh, AI is going to destroy marketing and we're all going to be out of jobs and all that stuff." But so instead of sort of chasing every new thing, and I'm lucky I don't have the same thing that a lot of people have as far as board. I answer directly to the CEO. We're a singleowned company and I have a very good relationship with him. We kind of hash everything out. So um but to get to your point of what what we what I learned over the last year is we've kind of gone back to the basics. So making sure that the content you know content is king it's genu it's useful it's structured and of course it's a challenge it's easy for both humans and AI to understand but I think that if you're using things which I think are useful to humans too like the tlddrs this is really tactical you said I could get tactical um FAQs you know comparison content in each on each of our like high traffic pages um great content still wins I think there's just like a little bit of a maybe higher or somewhat would argue lower bar for sort of the clarity and structure now. So, we were seeing things like that once we started implementing that. And of course, you can check our our website and tell me where which ones were missing. But having those, you know, the accordion style FAQs, like some of it does feel like I'm going, wait, I feel like I did this back in like 2010. But it it's some of those same things going back to the basics, making sure our content is useful, making sure that we're answering those questions that our ICP are asking in the way that they're asking and being just sort of expanding that surface area. So, >> whatever GPT or Perplexity or AI tool you're using >> the the making sure that we're answering those questions that they maybe used to take to Google and then also to your point Marcy making sure that the narrative that that actually is accurate that whatever chat GPT or I mean that's I use that the most is actually answering the question correctly in the way that we want that matches our positioning and narrative. Dave, I let let's bring you in, but I I also wanted this point is landing in the chat, which is great. Jessica said, "Love this reiteration. Kind of tired of all the new marketing tactics and definitions when basic marketing still works." Always always good to hear that, but felt like you wanted to say something there. >> Well, I mean, um, well, it's interesting to hear Claire's story and Marcy's story, right? Because it all comes back to um, I think like a fundamental principle. So, it's it's easy to have this like topline technology is changing, but the principles stay the same. But what are the principles that actually stay the same from from what I'm hearing from from sort of the two of you and from our experience over here? Uh now is the time to be very generous with your content. Now is the time to think about content marketing from the perspective of like am I providing value to the people who I'm putting the content in front of. And so as an example over here, uh late last year, we um uh really understanding that that our customers and the prospects that we talk to have lots of questions around AEO, we put together uh this uh this free AEO sort of assessment tool that anybody could come to our website, they put in their URL and then we would feed back to them, you know, based on our understanding of the technology and their website. and we've got like a special, you know, kind of sneak peek into things here. Here's where you score in sort of your evolution in AEO and here are the things that you can fundamentally do to fix it. And so I bring that up a to invite anybody in the audience to take that that kind of free assessment, but b it it it stands for a principle of um making sure that you're helping the audience with whatever problem they're going through. and content marketing and content development is a great way to do that in a very kind of authentic way. >> You mentioned this greater that you built. Tools are great. People love hearing about tools. I want to circle back to Marcy. You mentioned tools like let's let's dive into your your your tech stack for this. Um once you start deciding you want to go after AEO um what do you what do you bring in? You got your SEO agency. Okay, cool. What else? >> Yeah, so um we use tools through our agency. Our agency is Verio, which I think I got from y'all as a recommendation in the Exit 5 Group. Um, and the tools that we use are Peak AI, um, which you can go to their website. It's hard to, it's a tough brand name, but it's PEC AI. Um, and they have, you know, lots of validation from brands they represent. There's another tool, um, at a company called Scrunch as well, and that's a startup, but Kevin White, he's a marketing guy. um he went there as well and they have a really good report as well and they can give you sort of competitive intelligence along with your your own company intelligence. Um so here's the thing though these tools are very nent and very much so evolving with this because we all started like at the beginning of the year trying to figure this out. So what I what I know for sure is we're missing a lot of attribution which is the age old problem. Um, and so we cannot fixate on the numbers that are coming out of it. We have to know that everyone we know is looking at them and to make sure that our brand is showing up as we want it to show up. Um, and so yes, track the numbers, report to the board exactly what you're seeing, but do your due diligence as a marketer and make sure that we're providing accurate answers and positioning your brand for success. >> What would be the like holy grail that you're trying to get to? It's I mean it's probably attribution. Is it knowing exactly what certain you know how often you're you're showing up in in LLMs? Like what what would be the closed loop thing? >> Well, we hear it from the sales people. You know, these people that your your prospects that are customers that are going to LLMs are very high intent. They're looking for answers and then they show up in sales calls later on. Um it takes longer. They convert at a much higher rate than any other channel. Like for us, um it's I think I mentioned it's 0.1% traffic, but it's like 5% conversion rate on that traffic. So it's uh it's pretty high. Um they're get they're very informed. They're researching who they're going to go with and then they show up to the demo later talking about it. >> Claire, what's uh Marcy? Anything else in the in the in the stack? Because like the reason I'm asking is I want to give people I think we can we can go back to the the content and the structure in a second. I I have some um questions on that, but I I think there is a lot of noise around like tools and what should you be using? Like I don't even care so much as to like the the the name. Obviously, people in the chat want to know like, "Oh, she she said this tool like I'm going to go try it out." But like, you know, you need uh my driveways like I need I need shovels to shovel my driveway. I need a snowblower if it gets really heavy. Like what you know, what are the jobs to be done that you that marketers need to like to attack this problem? I guess is kind of where I'm coming from. And any any of you can answer that. You can answer that. >> So I think one of the things I'll say and I also got a recommendation from CMO council. So shout out to Dave is not paying me to say this by the way. Um but >> I will I will now. I'm going to send you a package after this. >> U but Jess Joyce, I think it's just jyoicey.com. Um she has been a really great hands-on and she's actually mentored some of my team who are we're kind of new to SEO and a AEO or the combination. I'm treating them as one thing. um internally, but um she helps us. So, and we have access to some of her tools, plus we have our own, but so she's been great. She's kind of like the guide that helps guide, you know, says, "Hey, yes, this is a fut check for me." Helps prioritize and leads some the team on some of the more technical mechanic stuff. Um so, I think she's a great partner. Um our we also use so she uses peak peec and then we use hrefs and senrush. they track different things and get different answers. I kind of would recommend just picking one and sticking to it because then if everybody has access then you're going to get one person going, "Well, why did our AI visibility this month, you know, didn't it didn't rise at all." Oh, well, we were tracking it in Hrefs and we rose six points. You know, you get those kinds of things. So, I think it's best to kind of unless you're just having an agency manage it and use their tools stack. I I think it's best to pick one of those. I don't really have a strong opinion on which one's better. They they track different things. There's different things to like, pros and cons. It's just, you know, test them both, do a free trial and pick which one works for you. Um, and so, but we use those to sort of track the AI visibility, the the, you know, prompt rankings, things like that. Send us a monthly view. We just got the AI versions kind of to test them for a quarter. We just got the sort of AI upgrade for both of those. I think we got them in November. Um, so still testing. Um, haven't really made a final decision on that. I do think this is a little off topic, Dave, so stop me if you want if I'm going too far, but it seems to me like the volume from AEO is still like tiny compared to, you know, other search like >> Oh, yeah. I I have a sample size of one, but just like for our business, I will go and look at oh some of those tools sometimes like we use hrefs and I'll go in there >> and I think part of me is just like everyone's talking about it and so it's like cool to be like check this out and then it's like oh we got two leads last month from from this source and that's you know compared to hundreds on other channels or whatever but >> um yeah I don't know. >> I mean I'll I'll I'll jump in on that front. I you know I think as marketers long history of like catastrophizing uh the impact of new technology again I go back to this like like same principles different tools but like we we're guilty I'm guilty of hey there's there's a new tool new technology that's going to upend everything that we do when the reality is you know um to the point that y'all are bringing up there are they're of course early adopters uh but the rest of the market takes a little while to to to sort of catch on. If you live in San Francisco, I live in San Francisco. You'd think based on Highway 101 and 280 and all the billboards that are around that the entire world is AI native and the entire like every company out there is AI powered and AI native. And the reality is like thing things feel like they're moving faster than they probably are. Um I also think that not all traffic is the same. you know, Claire, to the point that that you brought up, the type of traffic that comes to our website from from a from an answer engine is just a different type. They're they're actually lower in the funnel. And so the um the the job to be done of a website at that point is much more about like conversion rate optimization and making sure that you've got the right experience set in front of people than than almost, you know, kind of anything else. Um, and then in terms of tools, I mean, I I I think there's um there's a massive proliferation of tools out there. And so my guidance to everybody here now is is choose the right one that that fits you. We're giving, you know, best best practices. We use graphite, by the way, great agency. And I'd say the the principle that I would adopt over here is like trust your SEO. Your SEO expert is also going to likely be on the front end of changes that are happening with AEO and they're going to be the right ones to understand which shovel should we should we buy for this job. >> When when we were talking about some of that stuff earlier, uh I forget who said it in chat, but I wouldn't give them give them the credit, but the real name for this AEO aio stuff should really just be like this is search marketing, right? It's just the new the new wave of like figuring out search. Okay, we we got one we have one we have one um one person in the there's a comment that I want to address and we can push on it. Uh this is all this is all too high level agency use a tool make great content. So like let's let's up our game and like prove that we're not just calling the shots from the from the the ivory the ivory tower over here. One thing I wanted to get back to in the in the content was like I want to hear what what does that mean? What what content are you creating? what is the content strategy? Uh, you know, there's so many approaches from over the years. It used to be just be like volume wins. We need blog posts, you know, every day. Then it was like this other p this other pivot to like we're going to we're going to focus on I used to call it like, you know, pillar content, 10x content. We're not going to do a lot of content, but like when we do it, we're going to write, you know, meaty research reports. But now today, you look at it, it's like you got to be on LinkedIn, you got to be on YouTube, you got to have Instagram, Tik Tok, uh, all you you can't possibly do that. And then what happens is what happens to some of our stuff sometimes is like then I'll I'll I'll think I have this great idea and I'll put a video on YouTube and it gets 17 views. You need a real strategy here. I'm curious to hear about like the actual approach to content strategy and and what needs to be created and and I want to make that person feel like, you know, all right, yeah, they heard me. >> I can give it a go. I am not my direct content person, but I do approve the plan and read every single thing that we put out. So I can give it a go. But ask me more deeper questions and then I can also follow up with you. Uh, you know what I mean? So what we look at is we start with just like regular SEO, what are the keywords that we want to own? Um, and so once you have that keywords, like for example, for us it's property intelligence would be one of those keywords. Um, and then once we have that keyword for AEO specifically, we figure out all of the prompts that would relate to that keyword. So, give me the top property intelligence providers. Um, how do people get property intelligence? Does property intelligence integrate with Xworkflow? Um, once >> are you doing this just like riffing like coming up with these ideas yourself or is there a way to like to research this? >> Yeah, I mean part of it is you can look up and see um you can see like Google trends, what people are searching for. Um, you can also see inside of some of these tools um, adjacencies that your competitors are ranking for and that gives you some um, uh, gives you some idea of where you should go. Um, and then also inside of like you're already doing this in paid, you already know what keywords you want to, you know, own and paid and so a lot of this applies that you can sort of pick up and go from. So it shouldn't be sort of starting from from >> this is a good add-on to this by the way uh which Aaron put in the chat like comes down to knowing your customer Google trends sales call data you know semrush those types of tools but I my head went right to like the the tools side of this and it's like actually know if you have a deep understanding of your customer we have all the sales calls today are recorded we all have access to AI tools to be able to analyze this at scale right you could probably use AI to actually come up with the prompts here it's like hey here are the here are you know here's the makeup of our 50 best customers. Here's some, you know, trans transcripts, some objections, whatever. Let's come up with a list of the, you know, 10 prompts for these people. >> Yeah. Everything is recorded now. So, that is what you just said, Dave, in terms of people wanting tactics. I think that's a great way. And we have actually generated some of our highest performing content from that of sometimes it's sales individuals if if they're not if if we haven't don't have a call recording, but if we do have call recordings leveraging, okay, like you said, these are the 50 calls. What are some common themes across these? Obviously, it's dependent, like I said, we're very complex buyer journey and it's dependent on vertical, etc., but you can really drill down and get those those content pieces. And then from a tactical perspective, having somebody asked, I know, like do you do different content for each? And I'm like, no, I I I'm a fan of one content strategy. Um, and just, you know, thinking of it as like the human birth is the birth the content and the the AI format content is sort of how I think about it. Like that's that's how I think about it. >> I think there's one one other part over here. Um and and super super clearly like this isn't high level in the ivory tower and just thinking about you know kind of what the content strategy is but like on on on the ground uh we tend to think a lot about how do you build in the open you know and how do you provide value that way. It really goes back to that principle that I said earlier you know if you think about um how you can create content that provides value. I think about it from a from almost a a a community development perspective and and and sometimes people think about that and it doesn't feel as like marketing uh specific as it needs to be. But the reality is that that from practitioner to champion to economic buyer, there's a whole change that's happening right now and people want to see people building in the open. And so the way that we think about our content strategy in part is I've got a team of about 70 people in the marketing, you know, team. And one of the things that we encourage is hit LinkedIn, hit X, hit Reddit and and talk about what you're learning, uh, and share the best practices where you've failed uh, and what you've learned, where you've succeeded and all of that. So anyways, long-winded way of saying like that that type of building in the open I think is a way for you to sort of keep keep the noise in the market, which I think is super important today, but also make sure that it's not just AI slop, but you're actually like authentically sharing what you're learning in the process. >> Nice. I I like that. We used to talk a lot about air cover, and I'm that's why I'm a huge advocate of PR and social. Um, Marca, you you Marcy, you're about to get on a on on a heater and I, you know, I my ego got in the way and you know, I'm thinking this is my show and it's not. So, please please continue. >> Uh, so content strategy, right? Is that where I was? >> Yeah. Dan Dan messaged me. He's like, "Marcy's on a heater. Why did you interrupt her right there?" Literally, this is what I got to deal with. >> Okay. Um, all right. So, I also want to re reiterate like blogs are one tunch of your content for AEO. So, um, there's multiple ways that you can do it, right? So you can write but you can also get cited. Um and third party siting is maybe one of the most important things um because it is signals to the algorithm that what you say is true. Um if it's like a third party source of truth. Have you heard that phrase? Um it validates what you're saying. And so if you get multiple sources saying the same thing, this goes back to like describing your brand and product accurately. If multiple sources are saying this in the same way, it must be true. The LM is going to push this to the top of the recommendation. Okay, but back to blogs. So once you have sort of your keywords, then you have to kind of have to like sit and think for a little bit like put it in your brain and put your shoes put your you put on the shoes of your buyer. For us, it's like many different buyers. So we do this in many different ways. Um, but you think about the buyer like how are what are all the topics at the top of the funnel that they're going to be researching um as it relates to their profession. So let's let's go back to like um aerial imagery for example, another one of our top keywords. So if they're looking at aerial imagery, they might want to know um as an adjacent topic like what I can see with satellite versus aerial imagery or what can I get with drones? And you need to then write content for all of those things, even if it's not directly related to your product because what you're trying to do is build up awareness and consideration with your prospect. So that when they come time to buy because 80% of the people looking at this stuff are not ready to buy, they'll know eagle view and then have that in your consideration set. So, it's really counterintuitive and frankly one of the challenging parts of this is that you know you got to go to your subject matter experts inside of your company to get them to review some of this because it's highly tech it can be highly technical and as a marketer you do not need to know all the technicalities of every product. Um but um so then they'll object be like we don't even sell satellite imagery and you have to like explain to this that you are trying to circle the buyer with information so that they know your brand. Um, so, so we literally have a doc, um, if you want to get tactical, we have a word doc that has, um, all the keywords we want to rank for, and then we have a plan. We write out in the plan, like a six-month basis, all of the blogs that we're going to write, um, for that six-month basis to focus on one or two keywords that we want to rank for, and then we smash those out. Um, and it we don't it's not our number one priority, but we make sure we're consistently doing that. And then on top of that for the blogs for for blogs that are already ranking for us um in LLMs and search and and other ways we have to update that at least once every year because uh frequency recency is another trigger for the algorithm that you need to be on top of. So slide adjustments making sure it's fresh content. Um that's sort of the second effort. I love this line about um circling the buyer because I think it you know if we separate the like AEO whatever like oh that that's the strategy is like circle the buyer surround sound for for wherever that and this this question came up and I made a note to to talk about it uh um Mariela in the chat says are you all investing more in PR now that it's back and I made a note here um earlier just to myself which is like I've been want I wonder like do PR and brand become like even more important again because here's an example. I'm researching this product. A lot of the enterprise types of products don't always have publicly available pricing, right? And so I might want to buy something. Pricing is not available. Well, there's a good chance that someone somewhere has shared that pricing on Reddit, right? And so if I go to the LMS and I'm asking to do the research, it's like, oh yeah, this actually cost this. The marketer's dilemma, though, is like, well, I didn't write that comment on Reddit. And so we all go to like, oh, we should be on Reddit. And it's like, well, no, because it's not like you paid someone to write that comment. Someone actually like used the product, liked it, wrote about it. Is there some element of like, let's reinvest in PR and brand because of this whole circle the buyer thing. And it's not as easy to tie back to sales. Any anybody kind of like pick up the direction I'm going in there? >> For sure. I I don't want I don't want to take up all the air, but yes. Um, we went back to long form PR just for the sake of PR um this year. um >> long form PR. >> Yeah. Just like remember like one year ago it was like oh shorter PR is better you know um like 100 word I don't even like one page press releases >> and now we're doing like multi-page press releases cramming it with more information just for the purpose of this. Um and u again inside the organization people like why are we releasing a press release on blah blah blah and if you're my competitor please put on your earmuffs but um but yeah it works um it's just more recency more citing and then um you know like with PR you put out a press release and immediately everyone sort of repost it now because journalists are fire all fired so there's no one actually writing any articles anymore and so the publishers will just repost your exact press release and it's super helpful for me >> well just that you got a link from another domain. It's like the whole Google thing all over again, right? >> It's all over again. >> I started it on >> Oh, go ahead, Dave. >> No, no, no. After you and then I'll chime in. >> Okay. I was just going to say for 2024, granted I was a little new to the company and learning the industry and everything, but in 2024, I think we might have done one press release and in 2025, we did like I want to say eight to 10. Um, so I kind of dr drilled down on that and I I don't have any exact um to speaking to the person who was like, "Oh, can we get like the real marketers in next time I am I am both I I'm up here at 30,000 foot view, but also the actually writing the press release that gets sent out and researching." So um we did do we did really um sort of double down on the press release. We also had a lot of news to share but I think that I don't have the exact numbers on well did that move the needle you know there's there's some opinions versus data you know conversations happening internally but it is also going to be a big part of our strategy for so I'm I'm with you Marcy just to just to reiterate what you said on the and and even our PR person the the press release wire that we use they're really helpful like we don't pay them extra for that but they're helpful with telling you like hey what works and and they have all said Um, every time I do a press release and I have that live call, they're like, "Yeah, long form long form is in." So that's from the the big guys at Sision. >> I also, you know, I to to kind of double click on what you said. It's it's fun to to both, you know, be be the leader of the team and the operator at the same time. And I think as things change, you all of us are rolling up our sleeves and all of this. I started my career in PR. Um, and I think the right Dave, I see you. Um, and I think I think having having that as as a foundation, the ability to kind of tell stories to extraordinarily cynical audience uh, in like 30 seconds or less is is a it's just an important success criteria for any like marketer today. Uh, and so to whoever asked the question, should you invest more in PR or not? I 100% think invest more in PR right now. And I also believe that the nature of of PR has changed. Um, and that the press release is a tactic. Like we're talking about a tactic. Should you do press releases or not? Yes, you should. Um, but press releases are only a part of how you should be investing in PR. And so what we've been doing is we've really realigned our our teams so that PR actually oversees not only like media relations and corporate reputation but social media marketing and influencer marketing and external and >> victory. >> Yeah. >> Confirmation bias. I've been I've been I've been writing my ass off about this on LinkedIn and someone finally said what I think. >> Yeah. Well, I mean and I completely agree with that. The external and internal part of PR is also really important because the people who work for your company are your best brand ambassadors. So what you need to do is make sure that you're you're arming them to to spread the gospel. Um and so we've seen great um results in in terms of that approach. And I and I think that like the last thing I was going to say, I want to go back to this like um circle the buyer. Um because I think the that can't be emphasized enough. The data out there shows that and I think it came from LinkedIn or from somewhere before that like 95% of your buyer audience isn't in market right now. They're just not. You're really only speaking to 5% that are in market. So as marketers, our job is to take that 95% and actually push them in market and find their category entry points. And so when we're developing our content strategy roadmap, we're really thinking also about what is that that category entry trigger and how do we create content for each of those trigger points. >> I like that. Um I love the I love the combining those roles because like social is the new PR today. It is it is word of mouth. And then also, okay, you started your career in PR. That's where I started. I think about this. The challenge is like back then there were lots of um trade publications, right? I I worked with one company that was like a legal IT company and just in the legal sector alone there were like, you know, 20 blogs and magazines and publications that covered like legal tech. That's all gone away now. And those people are like they have their own substack, right? Or they have a lot of followers on on a particular platform. And so that is you need to influence them. Um, which I really liked. And then also on this the topic of a press release beyond the benefits of like you writing something that the LLMs are going to, you know, crawl or whatever they call it in in this world. I I love it as a forcing function for you as the company to have to have something to say and have some news. And so it's like what I just like the exercise of like writing the press release. And I obsessed over like um Steve Jobs writing and they used to write the headline first like for any product launch they'd be like I want the headline I'm going to write the headline that I want the journalist to write. our thank you >> that exactly that exercise of like let's write this and then it's like okay yeah what have we done over the last three quarters like what what do our customers care about like what stuff have we shipped or it can be like oh my gosh like we have no innovation we've done nothing and now this is a forcing function for I think that like product marketing cadence and tying that stuff up into news is also really important and how you can you know we talked about um air cover a little bit um I think that's how you can kind of like manufacture your your own news internally also. >> Yeah. Um, you know what's painful as a marketer is I write a lot of press releases um to help our company understand what our product is and the value when it's so backwards, right? Like we should not be creating products not knowing what the value is. Um, but yeah, like so we use press releases a lot of time as a way as a clarification methodology for our company. um and we work out sort of the positioning as we write it and it's it's unfortunate like like that that's the way that happens but it's actually a really good tool for it because you know of course we want everyone to the seuite your GC or the CFO to your CEO certainly to approve your press release and it acts as a mechanism to uh solidify what we're what we're actually offering and who we're going after and I I saw someone in the comment asking this and I think it's really important you have to push the press release to the wire. Um, that's what gives it the momentum. Um, so it would it would be helpful, I guess, to put it on your website, but it's not going to have nearly the same impact as if you'd put it on the wire. >> All right, we're going to we're going to I got a bunch of questions in the Q&A and I want to get to some of them and then and then uh we'll we'll wrap up. So, I'm going to rapid fire these. Whoever feels the strongest in inclination to pop in and answer it, it's it's up for grabs. Um, this question is for a startup with limited expertise in budget. This seems like a a tough start. or do you think it's manageable? So, let's reframe this. And if you were running marketing at a startup with basically no budget right now, what would you be thinking about? Um, from from a content and AI standpoint, >> I would not be worrying about AI. Uh, in terms of AEO, I'd be worrying about understanding my positioning and messaging and the AEO will follow if I had limited time and budget. >> Marcy, I was going to say the same thing. You and I share a brain. I think um I think the smaller the place, think about your positioning strategy, your messaging, how what's the differentiated value that you offer, who cares a lot about that value, and then and then lean really in into that. Wow. And I definitely share a brain. >> Yeah, I was I agree. I was going to say something similar, maybe a little more tactical of just that. Yeah. And once you nail that, then just creating, you know, starting with a very small manageable content strategy. If you do have information on hopefully you have information on who your buyers are and what they're looking for, but you know, creating content, start small, you know, maybe a weekly or bi-weekly p publishing cadence. But I think yeah, I agree with what Marcy said in the beginning. Like I wouldn't be starting about AEO. I would be thinking like what content do we need to create that will be, you know, useful to our buyer and then from there you can work your way up. But I do think it's manageable to do it without an agency. I mean it takes time and you you have to have leadership aligned but I do think content strategy and SEO and AEO and what you know you guys know my thoughts by now and that I think of it as like one thing >> right >> um but I do think it's very doable >> no better way to learn it than to be forced to do it because you can't hire an agency like these big fancy CMOs uh no just kidding um if this one is more about onpage uh web stuff I don't know if any of you have any learnings here um if the blog and resource hub content plays are such a big play such a big role in search. How does that methodology apply to core web pages like product or service pages? What do we need to do contentwise on on product pages to rank well for AEO? Any lessons there on like actual just structuring of web content? I think that that's that goes back to the sort of the three things that um that adding the like TLDDR key takeaways section at on those pages, even the product pages, even if it feels like maybe this is too short for a TLDDR or key takeaway, I still think it's important. We've seen that work. I also think adding FAQs to those product and solution pages. Ideally, they mirror real buyer questions if if you can, but again, if you don't have an agency or you don't know what those are, you don't have the feedback loop established yet with your sales team, get that feedback loop established if you can. But, um, I think having those like their little three or four or, you know, or as many as eight or 10. I can share some in the chat, the link. Are we allowed to share links? I can share a few. Yeah. Um, Bank Rate does a really good one on the EAT, which I had to Google what that stood for because I forgot because like that felt like a marketing 101 class 20 years ago. Um, but I I'll share that one. And then um, credit team I think is the other one. I'll share them. But they both do a really good job that sort of the comparison pages. So we are still working on building out that content, but sort of like the us versus them. Hey, here's what we do. Here's our differentiation and using legal. If you have if you're big enough to have a legal team, they may give you grief about doing like for us, I'll say one of our competitors is language line um for our for the language services pillar of our business. And that is like something we're working on is actually, you know, Pedmont global versus language line and and actually doing a comparison. It seems like the a the algorithm the LLM's like that kind of content. Um, but I'll send you I'll put in the chat those examples of some actual hopefully it's helpful tactical to kind of how to structure this chat. >> I think we hit on this one. Um, how are you all tracking AI search? What people are asking? You've mentioned a bunch of tools. Uh, just re recap on the tracking because I feel like in order to start you know you need to we need some progress on this. Is it you'd use somebody um there was Seamrush was one HS has their brand brand radar tool. Anything else that we missed there? >> Peak. >> Yeah, a lot of lot of peak comments. >> Yeah, peak peak um we use profound as as a tool as well. Um again there there are a lot of individual tools out there each with their own I guess um you know get kind of added value proposition. I just go back to the basics either if you're using the peak or profound or or whatever. Uh but we look at all of that. We are also looking at the fundamentals of you know traffic to page conversion rate on page um making sure that we're setting up sort of experiments on page in so that we get you know sort of the greatest amount of learnings from them. my my favorite my lesson and I'm going to apply this to our business from from today is like just making sure I have a strong opinion or you know let's talk to you making sure you have a strong opinion on how people find you and how people buy from you and let's work backwards from there and now it's like oh maybe like some of the best plays in here are not necessarily just the like cool cool AI tools to to do to create the content and help you rank for these terms but it's like a world where We have all of the customer data. We have all the sales calls. We have all the churn notes. We have all the like, you know, best fit people. We can analyze all that. I I was watching a guy demoing Claude Code today and and um basically there's like a a tool in there where you just it asks you the questions all the way through and it's like I could just be using an AI tool to basically tell me what I should be working backwards from to come up with the the prompts. And I think that's a really helpful that's a really helpful lesson. U Okay. Producer Aaron, let's roll the poll. We believe in measurement. Speaking of measurement, we are a datadriven company here at Exit 5 and we this is a product for us. We really care about these. So we we measure all them. Put your rate this this session right uh right now. Five if you loved it, one if it wasn't great. We've never had a one. So don't you dare press that button today. I see a lot of fours and fives, which is which is where where we want to be. And there'll be a bunch of follow-up on this. I feel like we we can't we can't hit on this enough. there's going to be an endless appetite for like, hey, teach me how to do AI SEO, teach me what to what to learn. We hear you. We're going to continue pushing on this topic. Um, I thought this was great. I the mark of a of a good session for me is often like how much I'm scribbling down during this and and I got a bunch of stuff. So, just a a quick virtual, you know, round of a thank you for Marcy, Claire, and Dave. Thank you to Web Flow for for being a partner and sponsoring this. Go and check out everything we do. Exit 5.com. All of this will be uh up on our website and our podcast. You can check them all out on YouTube if you want to go and listen and get smarter on B2B marketing. I'm Dave Gart. I'm the founder of Exit 5. I'm the host and I'm out of here. This was we'll see you again uh in a couple weeks. All right. See you all.
