# How Marketers Are Creating High Quality Content with AI (That's Not Slop!)

Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IqHPGOc1aew
Upload date: 2026-02-2x (unconfirmed)

---

for creating quality content today. It's hard. Like, it's never been easier to generate content. And there's never been more tools to get context from. And what's actually difficult is the prioritization of what actually matters. Like, what's going to move a needle for you? And kind of like that age-old like adage of like time or money or like energy. Um, I think teams now have to choose between they're trying to make a trade-off between content quality, volume, and velocity. And I think oftent times content quality is the hardest attribute to get right. That's also the attribute most teams are like skimping on and it's costing them results today and it'll increasingly cost results and we'll see from Adena and Connor later how some of the best in the business are approaching it and um I have some data to share later as well on why content quality is actually one of the most important attributes you can go and focus on. So, like the guide Dan referenced, everyone here today will leave with like kind of a playbook you can implement this week because I'm very much of the mindset like you want easy quick wins. So, I think content quality tlddor one of the most important things you can focus on and it's probably the one that most marketers are leaving behind themselves right now. Hey everyone, welcome to today's session. Sorry, I'm a minute late. We're just getting ready backstage. Uh, I've got some awesome guests here today. Um, I'm not Dave. That's the first that's the first update to give you. That's the first order of housekeeping to do. I'm not Dave. I'm Dan. I'm the CEO of Exit 5. Uh, we got some feedback that everyone was sick of Dave. They wanted someone new. So, they chose me for some reason. No, Dave's on vacation. He's actually sick on vacation. So, shout out Dave. Hope you feel better. Um and uh I get the pleasure of hosting today's session um about um how to create high quality content with AI without creating AI slop which given how many people registered for this um pretty popular topic. So that's exciting. Can you chat in Hey Joe, what's up? Um can you chat in right now? So okay, people can hear me. I should have asked that right right from the jump. Um I want to actually No, actually sorry, you don't have to chat in. We're going to add a poll right now. Um, the question is, on a scale from one to five, um, how much do you think AI is making BDB content more generic right now? And so there's a there's a poll. It should appear. I can't see it yet, so I don't know if it's up there yet. Let me go to polls. Yes, it's being published right now. There it is. Perfect. I just want to read the room. Yeah. Okay. I'm a 10. Perfect. I want to get a feel for the room. We are here to help you today. spend the next 60 minutes um we've got some great people on the ground on the front lines um uh Connor, Adena, and Owen um to share what they're working on, share some results, but I want to hear from you first. That'll help us make sure that we're catering this session to your needs because that's why we're all here today. Um it looks like we're getting a lot of fives, some fours, some threes. Good. It's a good mix. It's not like everybody's freaking out at a complete five level, which is good. We wanted to have a a mix of everything or a real feel for what how you're feeling and we want to hear from you throughout the the session too. So um while you're answering that I think we can start adding in actually sorry before we add it in I have an ad to read here. Um so today's session is brought to you by our friends over at AirOps. Um they are our sponsor. AI generated slop. It's the best thing to ever happen in marketing. You want to know why? Because it raises the bar. AI slop kills deals. It kills brand. It kills trust. Um, and as a result, it's forcing marketers to create things that actually matter. That's what Aerops is built for. It's a content engineering platform for marketers who want content that sounds like their best subject matter expert, not a chatbot ground in real resources, real insights, real information, and it helps you find and act on your highest value opportunities in AI search. Not just dashboards, but actual execution. AI search and SEO is a topic that everyone wants to get smarter on right now. It's probably the hottest topic in Exit 5 if you go into Exit 5 or you read our newsletter or you come to our webinars like this. Um, and EarOps helps you get there. So, go check them out. EOPS.comexit5. Owen for last week has been putting together a guide um, specifically for you of how to get started. He's going to walk you through it. I don't want to ruin it. I'll screw it up if I start talking about it. But how to get started this week on creating higher quality content with AI. He's going to give you that for free. It's actually at aops.com/exit5. You can go there, you can get the guide. Owen will tell you a little bit about it in a minute. Um, and I'd also just say they have some amazing content on there um on their website about AEO content creation. Um, and uh, so if you go to aops.com, go to resources um, they do live sessions like this and and they're great. So you can check those out as well. All right, let's add our guests, our guest experts, our guest speakers to stage now and we'll we'll do some intros. All right, everybody. Welcome. >> Hey, Don. Thanks for having us. >> All right, Owen. >> Yeah, thanks for thanks for joining. Owen, I'm gonna kick it over to you first. Let's do an intro and then um let's start with So, we we got some data here. Some some plenty of people that are are concerned about um you know, creating content that doesn't meet the bar. It's not going to help them connect with their audience. Let me ask you this question once you introduce yourself. Um why do you all feel um there are so many brands struggling to connect with their audience via content right now? >> Great question. So, a formal introduction. I'm Owen, despite how my name is spelled. I am VP of growth at Aerops. Uh, like Dan said, he gave a great introduction. We're the first end toend content engineering platform. In short, we help you get found and stay found in AI search and Google. Um, great question and then it's great to see the the data flowing in from the poll. We do a lot of uh research ourselves on that topic of what our audience thinks, but um I think it's like for creating quality content today, it's hard like it's never been easier to generate content and there's never been more tools to get context from. And what's actually difficult is the prioritization of what actually matters, like what's going to move a needle for you. and kind of like that uh age-old like adage of like time or money or like energy. Um I think teams now have to choose between or they're they're trying to make a trade-off between content quality, volume, and velocity. And I think often times content quality is the hardest attribute to get right. That's also the attribute most teams are like skimping on. And it's costing them results today and it'll increasingly cost results. And we'll see from Adena and Connor later how some of the best in the business are approaching it. And um I have some data to share later as well on why content quality is actually one of the most important attributes you can go and focus on. So like the guide Dan referenced, everyone here today will leave with like kind of a playbook you can implement this week because I'm very much of the mindset like you want easy quick wins. So I think content quality tldd or one of the most important things you can focus on and it's probably the one that most marketers are leaving behind themselves right now. >> Awesome. Well, thanks for for joining us here and obviously you have a ton of information here. You're sitting at the center of working with people like Connor and Adena who are on the front lines building out content in this new era. Conor, let's kick it over to you. Let's do a little intro and then if you could answer too like why do you think brands are struggling so much to connect with their audience right now? >> Yeah, thanks. Uh thanks for having me as well. I'm Connor. I'm a senior SEO manager at Legal Zoom. We uh do a lot of legal services, business formation, trademarks, etc. Um it's a great question. I view it as sort of an identity crisis for marketers, right? Where historically we have, you know, for good marketers prided ourselves on providing value to the demographics we care about. And the way we've done that is by creating, you know, usefulformational content. But now that so much of that demand is being met by engines, at least on the lower end of things, the question becomes, how do we as good marketers provide a new type of value that is incremental beyond what the engines are providing? And I think that a lot of our systems have not yet caught up to that reality. And so we're caught in this limbo of the things that we have been doing to connect with our customers are already being fulfilled somewhere else and in some ways better. Um, and yet we haven't really figured out the processes needed to scale new value uh, ads to the markets that we care about. And so the connection issue is real. Um, but there are solutions. So hoping to talk about that a little bit more in my slides. >> Yeah, looking forward to digging in with you and then we'll kick over to Romania, which is where Adena is. First of all, Adena, what time is it in Romania? >> It's actually 8:00 PM, right? >> Okay. End of day for sure. Is that a normal working hour for you this this late in the day or or or are you staying up late for us? >> Not really working hour, but I enjoy doing this type of meetings and webinars and anything. So that's totally fine. >> We appreciate you coming. So tell us a little about yourself and then you know why why you think brands are struggling to connect with their audience right now. >> Uh right. Thanks for having me first and uh I basically agree with what I and Connor said. I'm sorry that I'm butchering your name. I can't always pronounce it right. This is this is just being part of Romania. So, I'm the head of AO at WeFlow. That's We Flow, not Wet Flow, because I know a lot of people get it wrong, including >> chat, >> which is why I'm actually here and why my role is to make sure LLMs and Google know who we are and don't confuse us with Web Flow. Uh I think why brands are struggling right now is because a lot of people in SEO myself included we've been doing this old playbook for a lot of time for example two years ago we were publishing I was publishing 150 articles a month at user pilot and that was like a really high velocity that we needed to even get a chance to compete with everybody in SER and now we're being bombarded with all of these changes in SER Nobody knows what's working, what's not working. There's a ton of information out there what what we should do. Add schema, add llm.ext file, not add it. So, it's a bit confusing. We don't know how to approach it. And a lot of people say, "Hey, okay, we have AI now. So, let's just go and use AI to apply the the same pl that we did scrape all the pages and everything." This is actually what I'm going to be talking about today. That's the problem. strongly need a mindset shift to be able to move from how do we rank in Google towards how do we teach and help LM recommend us when our tool is the best uh choice. >> Awesome. And I think there's actually some some specific information what you're talking about in uh Owen's guide which again we keep teasing Owen but we'll talk about that in just a few minutes. Um before we get into that and some research that Owen wants to share um want to kick it over to Connor. Um, where are you focused right now, Connor? What are what are the areas you're most focused on? I actually think you have a couple slides, some visuals you wanted to share as well to talk about um where you're focused at at Legal Zoom. >> So, definitely a lot of uh focuses right now, but I think we're most interested in kind of pairing down uh the areas in which we are focusing. So fewer pages overall, even to the extent that we're culling some some long form content that's no longer serving our needs and then focusing on really accelerating not only the quality of the remaining pages, but also smoothing out the flow fromformational surfaces to transactional surfaces. So if we're getting cited and surfaced less often, you know, sessions are going down, then that means the value of any individual session therefore goes up and we need to be nailing CRO and nailing that pathway to conversion whenever it happens. >> Awesome. Did you want to share a little bit? So one question actually before Connor shares anything else. Um, we can show you, it kind of depends on how technical you all want to get, but like we can kind of show you like last week we met Connor, Owen, and Adena and I actually went in through and they show me some of the flows are building. I want to hear from you guys though. Again, like I said at the beginning, I want to make sure this is um as helpful for you all as possible. Can you chat in let us know if you want to see like some of the flows that Connor and Adena have built and like how they're actually using some of these input sources to create content? I need to I need to hear yes and I need I need confirmation because sometimes when we share stuff people don't Yeah. Okay. We're getting a lot of guest pleases. Okay, there we go. I was waiting for that barrage of of of chats before we do it. Great. I want to go behind the scenes. I want to show this. It seems like people want it. Connor, do you mind sharing your screen and showing us some of the flows that you've built? >> For sure. So, I'll do the slides ahead and then we'll segue into the flow if that works for everyone. >> Yeah, this topic deserves visuals. We don't do a lot of them in these sessions, but like we we actually have people on the front lines building out, you know, content for Legal Zoom and We Flow to pretty notable companies. And so I I would love to just kind of peer behind the scenes here and see some of what they've been building and show all of you. Of course, >> for sure. Let me find where I am. Yes. >> Is this showing as loading for all of you? There we go. >> Yeah. So, I guess where I want to start is that for better or worse, SEOs have gotten by for a very long time by creating decent content, right? You know, you look at the SER for a given keyword, you see what's already ranking, and then you skyscraper it in some way. You provide, you know, new subtopics or sections that weren't present. You adjust the format to surface answers more quickly and prominently, or you just polish up the writing quality itself. Um, and that worked for a very long time as a form of kind of incremental uh, improvements. And it specifically worked when our competitors were our actual competitors. They were other brands and businesses trying to rank in the same spaces as us and reach the same audiences. But with the advent of LLMs, more often than not, our competitors are the engines themselves. And if all we're doing is paraphrasing what previously existed, we're never going to beat the engines, right? They set the rules, they have the tech, they're just better at it than we are. And also, why would they ever be incentivized to surface our content if it's just in their eyes a worse version of what they're already doing via ChatGpt or AI overviews? So the question then becomes if that demand is being fulfilled by the engines, what do we do with our content that goes beyond what the engines can provide and hopefully what our actual competitors can provide and how do we stop thinking about the definition of incremental as meaning uh small and start thinking of it as meaning new, right? Um, and the way we do that is by sitting down internally and having a hard conversation with each of our teams about what we have to offer that is unique to ourselves and unique to our businesses. Um, for Legal Zoom, this was thankfully pretty simple. We've always been all about the human in the loop. Like even as we like we just announced a partnership with Claude today, but the partnership is predicated upon human in the loop. Like we are the experts at the end of the day. So, our answer was, let's start surfacing the voices of our attorneys, right? We have an in-house law firm that's trademark specialty. We have access to a broad network of attorneys and other specialties. Let's elevate their voices in our content because it's not something LLM can do. Um, but for other businesses, the conversation might be a little bit more complicated. Like maybe you do have subject matter experts that you can leverage either internal or external. Um, maybe you have proprietary data studies that you can externalize to add to the conversation. And maybe if you don't have either of those things, like for competitor comparison content, for instance, maybe instead of rehashing the third party pieces that have been done a million times, you start fresh. Go in, go through the product flows yourself, and treat it as if you're doing it for the first time. Regardless of what how you decide to do this and where you decide that your incremental value kind of lies as a company, that's what we need to start thinking about as we produce content. Um, for Legal Zoom, as I said, the the question was pretty easy of the what, but the how was the blocker because creating quality at scale seems like an oxymoron. Um, especially when you're dealing with lawyers, right? If you talked about having in-person or Zoom interviews with an attorney to source these quotes, you'd be lucky if you got three articles done a week. And with a portfolio of content as large as ours, it'd be 2035 before we had it rolled out across all of our content. Um, so that's where automation comes in, right? Specifically, something we called project Penny. So, Penny for your thoughts. This was an attempt to automate the ops surrounding the creation of quality rather than uh automating the quality creation itself if that makes sense. Um, it's very simple and when we get under the hood, you're going to be much less impressed by this because it is so simple. But, uh, at the end of the day, what it is is you take the URL of an article, you run it through an LOM to identify five opportunities throughout that article where a quote from a subject matter expert would hit hardest. You then frame that question with positioning and context. You identify the most relevant expert from your knowledge base from the subject matter experts to whom you have access and you get an answer. You route the question to them. Uh we're doing it through Slack like Aerops ties directly into Slack. It pings them with the message. They're tagged says, "Hey, new quote available. Here's the quote or here's the question that we need answered." Um and then you re-upload it right into your content. You could also do this via email or any other method of communication you want. Um what this allows us to do when run from a grid is essentially identify the opportunities, write the questions, find the experts and get the answers for a thousand articles at once rather than doing it peacemail three time three uh a week for the next you know 10 years or whatever. Um this is I think for us the best way we can possibly leverage this right now. And what was very kind of nice to see when we first started doing this is how different the real world experience was from what the LM suggested. Right? So a really good example is the first article we ever did uh it had a section about how to name your business. And the LLM when you ask it it spits out go with a flashy name, go with a memorable name. And our business attorney actually said no it's the exact opposite. You want your base business name to be very vanilla and general and then you file a DBA or a doing business as that's flashy so that you can, you know, keep that nice vanilla name for filings and keep things straight and then you can have the flexibility to change the flash whenever you want. Um, so now I want to get into the flow itself since you all were so eager and prepare to be not impressed by the >> Yeah, we're getting we're getting lots of good questions here. Uh, Connor, please get into it. This is this is great. Um, but I will I will jump in after you show a little bit to maybe answer a couple of these questions. >> Sure. Um, like I said, the flow is not very impressive. And I've had this experience with my team as well where they think it's like the best thing since sliced bread and then they get in, they're like, "Oh, I could do this." So, the the veneer comes off for me at least. Um, and for context, I don't code. I built this all with a built-in co-pilot. So it's just you know general kind of conversational prompting that allowed me to get to where I am today. So the flow itself project penny has two inputs. The first is um just the URL of the article itself and then also a knowledge base containing the name area of specialty and Slack ID of all of your experts. We're lucky that that knowledge base contains about 3,000 people right now for us, but it could be much more condensed for for y'all. Uh, it then goes that URL, scrapes the article content, all of its HTML, everything else. It uses uh 5.1 to identify quote opportunities. Um, these are fun. It always does five. It gives you uh the descriptor, the article snippet in which it appears, the required expertise type, the suggested question itself, and then frames it with the strategic value of why it chose this opportunity, uh and then gives you priority levels, right? It then searches the knowledge base itself for the most relevant experts, ranks them for the top three, and outputs directly into a dedicated Slack channel tagging them. Um, if you view here, this is actually an example of an output directly into Slack. So again, this could be done via email or wherever else, but it just allows you to automate the uh ops aspect of this and reduce the need for manual communication. And then they would just, you know, comment on the Slack message saying, I would like to claim this quote. Here's my answer. And you take it from there. Um, hey Connor, can I can I jump in with a question? >> Sure. >> Sorry, I'm going to jump into the question. I think it's the right time to ask this one. So um Katina Kadiana, excuse me. Sorry about my names. Katiana is asking about um so these are existing articles on the legal zoom website. The whole flow here is you're asking your in-house team to provide a quote. You automate it with Slack. Um you showed some stuff you're doing actually be able to create the output for it. That's awesome. But what does it accomplish to update the article with a new quote? Like when people land on the page like the I think you talked a little about CRO before. Is it that you you know like if there's a quote or an updated quote they're more likely to convert on that page like I guess uh Kanye I was just kind of wondering like what is the the the value of updating these old articles. >> So it's twofold. It is CRO right? anytime that you you showcase expertise um it adds trust especially in a trust sensitive space like legal um that's always useful but then it also fits exactly with Google's own definition of EAT right you are surfacing firsthand accounts from people who are very qualified to speak on the subject and then you're having all the proper schema associated with that quote we actually do a quote module that has automated schema built into it to to show Google like this is who's saying it, this is why it matters. And then the other thing is that we've seen this transition in the SERs away from kind of um devoid of personality generic content and transition more towards like the Reddits of the world where it's firsterson accounts speaking about their experiences with various topics. And as that type of content becomes more and more prominent on SERs, including it in your content is a really good way to get exposure in the way that you really want. >> Yep. Awesome. So having the actual human with an actual quote is just way more valuable than it would be if you were pulling something from, you know, an article elsewhere or generically quoted, right? So that that's part of the value there. Um, >> sorry. We in January we saw I think the best example of this is we saw one of our pages get usurped by a Reddit thread in a subreddit called Working Moms about the cost of forming an LLC in Delaware or something. And that was just like really put a pin in just how important the first person POV and the lived experience is and the way that Google is choosing how to rank things. >> Another question from Don for you Connor. How common do you get the samememes? So your so your legal team, the subject matter experts um identified for multiple opportunities. I guess one question I have is how manymemes do you have at Legal Zoom of these attorneys do you have to to ask these and what is the frequency at which they're being asked to write quotes? >> For sure. So the reason you saw the same ones in that snippet is I actually uh fabricated uh knowledge base of experts for this. Didn't want to surface the names of our attorneys. Um but the number of times you get repetition is dependent upon the number of experts you have and the diversity of their uh expertise right so I would suggest if you have quite a few spend extra time on the front end really clarifying what their exact area of expertise is because that's going to let the LM really hone in on the actual best person to answer the question. >> These LMS are smart right as con or sorry as Owen just said having something unique to say gets you seen by LM. So like having subject matter experts that have unique perspective in certain areas like trademarking or you know business creation probably is part of the value pot this is fantastic. Okay, can everybody just like chat in, let me know. Like this is the stuff you want to see, right? Like this is a very tactical audience is my understanding. People want to see behind the scenes like actual flows. Just chat in, let me know this is the kind of stuff. Yep. Casey saying, "Keep it up. This is great." Yes. Cool. This is great. Awesome. All right. Well, we've warmed him up for Adena. Conor did a great job showing some behind the scenes how how he's building out these workflows uh using Slack, using EarOps, um updating these old articles with quotes. We talked about how having something unique to say is important. LMS Adena, we want to kick it over to you. What are you doing at Wee Flow? Can you share a little bit about um some of the content creation? You were doing 150 articles a month for SEO back in the day. It sounds like that's a different strategy now. What's what's the new strategy? >> Yeah, for sure is. So, back then that was the only thing working like you needed scale and you need a ton of content out there. Right now, we just need better content. So it's not the volume, it's about the quality we're putting there. So let me quickly share my screen here >> while she's sharing. Anyone else in chat that's publishing was previously publishing 150 articles a month. Let's see if anyone can outdo Adena with that with that amount of volume. That's that seems impressive. That seems high to me. But Adena is a pro, so I'm sure she knew knows what she was doing. No one's willing to share. I guess I guess no one's going to beat you. Adena, you won. >> Okay. I won the cup of uh how many AI slop was put out there on the internet. Thank you. Okay. So, if there's one thing you you get from my presentation is this line. So, good content isn't AI generated. A lot of people think we need AI to generate content, which we do. We add context and everything. But what I want you to change your mindset too is that it's about AI assembled. So, you will see this in all of my workflows and how I structure everything. It's about the granularity of putting tiny pieces together and having the patience to extract all of the pieces and get to the final output. So that even stands for if you want to build a full page head on. It's not going to be generate one page. It's going to be generate tiny bits of pages and then put it all together. So let me show you how I'm doing this. Um I had a slide really beautiful one AI slop intelligence le I'm not going to go through it because everybody knows this uh what you need to keep in mind is that yes we do have that old playbook you need to scratch that and you need to start thinking in what's what pieces of context what pieces of intelligence do we have as a business because everybody has that being internal chat communication where people share knowledge between the team being QA reviews about your product being interviews, being sales scripts, anything out there that's intelligence that you can format and put into into what you want to produce. So, my approach is usually starting with the data. Now, thanks to uh Aerop's new MCP, it's actually easier to check all of the prompts and uh where you where are the gaps. So we have a ton of uh search console data where you can filter and see what are those long query that people are searching for but look mostly as AI uh questions not necessarily queries. We pull that we um actually build a more comp comprehensive library of potential prompts that people might be asking and then we analyze the data. What we want to see is which prompts don't mention us and uh when they mention us, do they mention us and talk about us the way we want them to talk? I'm referring to LLMs here. And all of these insights give us the context into which pages we want to uh refresh and which pages we actually miss and LLMs are using our competitors. So it's a more targeted approach where instead of doing 100 artic 150 articles, we want to do granular 10 20 pages and do them properly. So I'm going to show you an example of like where we where I started. This is a compare page where we're literally comparing ourselves to Gong. Gong is our top competitor. If you look here, you will see very surface level feature list. No DAP, no sources. Everybody has been doing this. Hey, we're great. Gong's not or my competitor is really bad at what they're doing. And the reality is that LLMs won't trust this page because neither humans will do and LM have one job like they they are there on the user side. They want to give the best uh recommendation for them because they want the user to come back and keep using them obviously. So what we did is we rebuilt pages like this from scratch using the intelligenceled process and this is sort of like the output that we're getting to. So you're seeing this. I intentionally put small bits and pieces here because I wanted you to look at this not as a whole page but at bits of information sections that LLM actually see and extract and where they can actually get good information quality information inepth comparison nonbiased comparison. We actually have sections where like where our competitor wins because let's be honest they do win in some cases. So this is the output that we want to get to. It has a ton of uh LM specific uh blocks, but it's also built with the human in the back of your mind because we're not just building for machines. We want the humans to have really in-depth information, right? Everybody hates when somebody tells, "Oh, you should try that tool." You get on a trial and you realize they don't do what I need them to do. So that's a waste of time and a waste of resources for us as a brand if somebody wants and spends our time and end up not buying. So this is an overview of my whole process. And instead of walking through this, I'm just going to take you through what we have in Arabs because everybody wanted workflows and the technical side. So uh let me just see if this is going to change the screen for you or if I have to share this again. Okay, it seems to be working. So I'm going to start from the back pillar five. This is the infrastructure. So everything we have in Aerops. I'm not saying you have to use AOPS. I just find it a really good tool to structure all my information and all my knowledge. So this has knowledge bases where we have a ton of data and then brand kit. This is something that we build ourselves. I just want you to look at the level of detail that we have in here because this is sort of what you need to avoid that slop. So the most important part in here apart from the product lines. So this is everything about our tool is the content types because in here so for the compare pages I'm using something that has a template. It's basically I'm basically telling the LLM what I want from this page. And then I'm giving it a sample which is added at the end because I can't add it at here. This is probably a a feature request for Eon laser. Okay. Once I get this done, I have a very comprehensive competitor analysis because when you're doing uh competitor pages, be it blog compare pages, you do need to understand your competitors. It's not just surface level stuff. So in here I'm actually extracting data from their site map from Captera in some cases where they had uh G2 manual review. So this is manual inputs that we have and product documentation. So all of that goes inside something that really looks through all of the data. I'm not going to go through every step in here because there's no not a point, but it's it's extracting everything and it uses LM to analyze and compact things. One thing that really worked for us is um yeah analyze and summarize is doing stuff at a granular level and using a ton of which I don't have here of course when you want to show something it's not there. So when you started obviously you had the gong versus we flow page that's the before state and that was was that one static page and then in the new state where you're obviously injecting this new level of intel and insight and you're building it with LMS in mind is there multiple variations of this page or is it just one static page still >> it's still one static page is just more contextual and has more containers more more elements in it more sections. >> Sure. And how often is being updated? Like is it constantly being updated? >> That's a really good question. That's that's the granularity that we can do with this type of workflows. Because if I run competitor analysis like every month, it's going to fetch new website data. So if my competitor updates their website, their health center, if there's new G2 reviews and everything, I'm going to get fresh data. So my end battle card here, you don't need to see this, you need to see the output. the my end battle card is going to be even more comprehensive and with more accurate data, right? Up to date. >> So then I take all of this and here is my grid for the pages that I want to do create or refresh. I put in some info in here. And when I build this one is actually taking that pillar approach that I was showing you first. So if we go back to this, what my workflow is doing is actually pulling the LLM truth. >> Yeah. >> So it's fetching everything that we have from prompt data. So everything that LLM are saying right now for specific prompts that we want to target because we know granular that that's where we didn't get the mention or our pages was weren't used. It's also doing fresh live prompting with specific prompts to collect a different angle because we know LLMs will answer something differently every time you ask them. So, we're fetching that information. This is scraping all of the competitors that we identified from the Aerops data. It's building the competitor tools. So, I want to understand why those pages that beat us like what do they have? what's the truth they are promoting out there uh fetching Aerops data understanding so consolidating all of the LLM truth then we I'm searching my knowledge base my product my sales transcript I'm extracting tools I'm looking at the competitors from there so it's a ton of steps by step this is what I said and assembled because I want to get uh the LM truth the competitor truth and then my truth And then I want to look at it and see okay where are the gaps where where are LM's getting it wrong what do I need to influence where do I need to actually put more pressure and add more context what is wrong out there and that gives me uh when it's a refresh I'm also analyzing existing page and I'm extracting the facts that still need to be there because I don't want to redo a page from scratch every time and have a completely different thing. So if I had some facts in there, I want to keep them, but I'm also going to validate if something hasn't changed in my product and those need to be updated. And then I take and map all my research to the content brief. This is an important section because as I said, we're taking the granular approach. So when I'm mapping, I'm actually getting a JSON which is literally splitting all of my content into headings and calls them sections and then maps all of my intelligence. Hey, this type of intelligence goes really well in this section. >> So, it's to structure everything where it fits best. And then when I'm writing it, I'm also taking the same approach and I'm writing it one step at a time because I'm not trying it to I I give it the full context. This is the page you're trying to create, but I want you to focus on this tiny bit and make it the best. And at the end I also re-edit everything because I notice that when I do that it always becomes better. And then I have the content comparison just so I can see the differences in theirs. >> This is like 400 500 level depth content engineering. So everybody like let's just be all let's admit that Connor and Adena have a level of depth here. Yeah. Exactly. This is an insane level of like thinking and like and I mean that of course in a very complimentary insane level like you all are at the very bleeding edge and that's why Owen wanted to have both of you here to explain some of the cool stuff you're doing. All right, let's take a pause. We're showing workflows and we're showing code. Whenever we show code to marketers by the way, everyone goes ding ding wait a minute there's code. I can look at someone's the uh the the uh what is that movie is that from I didn't know >> the hangover. That is the hangover. Okay. Yes. when he goes to the poker tables and he wins the money back. Yes. All right, let's take a timeout. Okay. Adena and Connor have clearly shown all of you that are here that they have next level thinking about content engineering, about building content in the age of AI, about how to not create a bunch of slop like clearly with both of these examples using real sources, real data. That's amazing. I want to answer some questions. One quick um easy question for the answer. Uh what uh CMS are you using to publish web flow? We flow use web flow. That's an easy one to remember. No one's going to forget that. Okay, great. Um, let's go to the questions. I think there was a question earlier about the brand kit. So, just like building the initial intel there about the brand. We just did this for instance at Exit 5. We're using Claude. Um, we built out like a style guide and we had, you know, Dave went through wrote a bunch of different things. We kind of started there and now we're running all our emails off of that project. Like, you know, where did you get started and what are the most important elements to include in a brand kit? So yeah, that's why I actually wanted to start with step five because I start with a brand kit and with a knowledge base. So I try to collect what pieces of intelligence do I have and I try to dump it everywhere like dump it in the knowledge base and then say okay how can I leverage this to build all my brand foundations to structure the data in there in a way that LLMs can read and understand because I know my brand kit is going to be used by LLMs. So it needs to be structured properly. I use markdown. That's a common practice. Everybody does that. Uh LMS are really good at understanding that. And I'm trying to be again granular. I think I said this word 10 times fine in the past 10 minutes right now. But that's what I really do. Like we don't want this is a paragraph. This looks good on a billboard. You want that. So to get all the information like I'm lucky at least at WFlow we have a ton of sales transcripts actually in WeFlow because that's a conversation intelligence tool built for sales scenes. So I can actually self- select manually select the conversations that I think are relevant and that have a ton of uh product context because we're also talking to a very technical audience. So I do need those technical details in there. I can't just put surface level stuff. So I need to say, hey, does we flow send that maps this object to Salesforce? How do you technically set it up? How do you I don't know that thing, but I can extract that information from sales calls where technical people actually explain it to other technical people. My job is to just patch it and format it in a way that LLMs can also understand it. So that's what I that's what I do. That's my job and that's how you have to think about the brand. Don't just throw something in here's my product. So for example in ours we have something product lines full platform this specific feature or that specific feature and everything is very detailed again and also comparing to how does it this is the pricing for that how the security does not do key differentiators competitors differentiator all of this is coming from our sales calls so nothing has been written by hand yes we do validate the data because because we want to make sure that it is uh accurate but we are pulling from new sales transcripts. We have a full master deck that we use in all of our cells which is uh constantly being updated. So the level of mistakes for us is quite uh quite small. >> Yeah, >> we do give this hey only extract from here. And again the granularity I'm processing sales calls I'm getting I'm formatting information. I'm processing something else. I'm formatting information, then I'm putting it all together. So, it's baby baby steps to get the best uh the best details. >> All right, let's kick it over to Owen. Uh Owen was going to share some research. So, Owen obviously sits at the front of all of this, working at AirOps, working with um uh customers like Connor and Adena, um going out and talking to people, learning. He had some research about this. I think he can kind of bring it home. We've seen two really great examples um of going on a a level of depth with um the unique source um and and using humans like Honor is his team to to create better content. Owen, what what can you what can you add to this conversation now? What what have you been learning? What do you want to share with our our audience here? >> Ah, that'd be better. I got a ton to share just like overlaying what Adena and Connor went through there. I really loved how Adena phrased it as there's like the LM truth, there's competitor truth, and then there's like your truth. And I think irrespective of like what tool you're using, there's a lot of context, which has been key to hitting on the quality aspect, which is what this conversation is about. So what they mentioned there was public information that's scrapable, sales calls, subject matter experts, performance data. Like don't forget to add the quantitative in as well as the qualitative. And then what Adena briefly touched on is like example outputs like you mentioned as well Dan like what Dave did internally with your claude code project like give it what best-in-class looks like and it's not go to chat GBT and like write me a blog on this and here's like a paragraph it's like lots of repetition and lots of context that you keep kind of compounding value over time. So that'll just be my like overlay what the the two demos went through. Um, on top of that, if I do share screen here, share, I'll bring this one up. Um, just give me uh give me a little thumbs up if you can see it. Perfect. >> So, uh, what do you need to know about like performant content? Because quality, yes, is important, but you want quality plus performance. There's like 100 bits of research we've done. So, uh, I'm not going to bring you through 100. I'm going to bring you through about three or four, but just taking one step back of how you can take action on content. In in my head, there's kind of four buckets. You can create content, which is largely what um we'll say like Connor was trying to do there. I think both of them then also touched on refreshing existing content and that that's like a big place you can start if you want a good win this week. You don't need to go from zero to one. Add some quotes into existing content that you have. And then just don't forget about off-site. Um I'll get into some research in a second, but uh your presence in thirdparty content is incredibly important. And then just like Connor had the example of like a Reddit um or subreddit appearing above one of their pages, that is like a competitor you now have in search and chat GPT. So you want to just make sure that your brand is mentioned in those conversations. Um here's some of the data. And again we were deep in code. This is deep in metrics. Just taking one step back. We need to take away from the left hand side is the bar for getting cited. The bar for appearing in AI search is much higher than actually just getting listed in your 10 blue links. Big things to take away structure matters. So like single H1 list sections, heading alignment, rich schema. If you're in SEO, if you're in content, none of this is revolutionary. I think just the takeaway is the bar gets higher like you need that really good structure which Adena had under the hood in her example and then we spoke earlier about velocity um content refreshed quarterly gets three times the number of citations and again leaning back into the the quality aspect if Connor can go back and hit up his subject matter experts once a month or once a quarter and be like hey what's the latest on this he's continually pushing ahead of the LL LM and like that's where you want to that's where you want to be to make sure that your brand keeps coming up. Don't forget about uh offsite. So 85% of brand mentions in AI search come from third-party content. That is content that you're not directly in control of. That's like very important to state. So the quality of your content will help you organically get picked up by other websites. And sure you can do like outreach, you can do backlinks, like those as tactics are incredibly important, but just be aware that uh you creating quality content is extremely valuable. We also need to make sure that it's well distributed off of your website as well. Uh this is the thing that we're all kind of like uh walking around right now, which is information gain content. This is like what you want to focus on. And if you want validation, oh my slide got skipped. Uh I'll come back to it, but this is the big thing that uh Anthropic and OpenAI are communicating to people. So Connor mentioned EAT is like Google's rules for making sure it's valuable content. Um OpenAI and Anthropic are literally communicating the same thing uh these days in that you need to add the conversation is basically their their framing of it. Um, yesterday, as we said, being able to scrape what was above you, who were direct competitors, repurpose their content in some way, shape, or form. That was the tactic. That was the playbook we all used. Now, it's can you find frontier knowledge from your internal experts and put that into your content to um actually get results. Oh, there we go. Open AI. Uh, they will do it based on highly targeted quality content. this is the most important thing that marketers can invest in. So there's your takeaway from the the Google of our times. Um frontier knowledge again just putting like a name on it. It's information that an LLM doesn't know or cannot yet answer um or doesn't have uh that they can answer a user's question. And think about it, we'll get into some examples later, but ramp have tons of product level data from credit card transactions. they're now able to surface that on their pages and then that just makes everything they do far richer for humans and agents than what an LLM or their competitors are currently putting out. Um, this I will admit was like vibecoded as a graphic by me today. So, we're using it we're doing it live. Uh, but this is research we're conducting at the moment. And to give you context, this is showing what attributes matter in the content you publish. again between Google and um AI search. So in this lighter green, so the upper bar, this is kind of the standard to appear in chat GPT. The lower bar is to appear in Google. The big things you need to take away is like more data points, more quotes, more internal links. That is going to increase your likelihood of getting into the AI search conversation. Um we actually did this test about 12 months ago. there was negligible difference between them. So now you can see when you have people like Connor and Adena pushing the boat out on getting their expertise into content that is making a big difference and then they're the ones pulling ahead. So the gap is definitely growing here but it's your opportunity to kind of get on the boat and get ahead as well. Um I think just the Chabbo just like legal zoom and we flow um they're a good example of uh bedding on this and uh Valyria is like the content engineer over there she started basically producing very similar workflows uh like about this time last year Q1 and 2025 and you can see that the percentage of high intent leads um via AI search referrals just like went off the charts and I don't have Q4 numbers But um essentially it's like about 13 14% as well right now. So just investment in this will bring through quality leads. Again like we all use chat GPT and claude we're doing lots of research and we probably go to two websites rather than five um for our purchase decision. So one of the biggest things I get every week as a question is like hey like you talk about all this data I have none of this data. Well, you you're not in business as a company without like some unique edge. So, be it like Connor's example of going to subject matter experts. Uh you may have those as employees. They could be your software engineers. They could be other marketers. Um so, think like uh like we flow carta rely on their gone calls or sales intelligence. Maybe you just have stuff that is sales enablement for the sales team. So, use their battle cards. And then if you're ramp or kayak, Upwork, you have lots of product level data. You may need an engineer to help you know where it lives, but see if they can give you a CSV. See if they can give you something that's like very tangible. You can add into cloud or cloud code and start to get insights, but you definitely have internal data that you can use. That'll be my takeaway. And then I am big for uh experimentation like what can I do this week to get going. So independent of any tools taking a big step back from Aerops or whatever else you might have access to. Um, this is what I want to leave people with. Um, and if you want a full guide of literally what I spent my full Sunday doing on this topic to validate it, you can scan that QR code. It'll bring you to the same page Dan mentioned earlier. But um, you can go to Google Search Console. You could go and drag uh your cursor over a Slack channel. You could connect a bunch of MCPS into Claude or IGBT. What I offered here was like pull your sales calls. So, go to gong again. Maybe you copy paste. Maybe you can do it a level higher than that, but pull real questions. Um, add them into your uh chat GPT. Get it to cluster it into teams like what what are people asking about what are the terms they're using? And then from there um you can do it manually or again ask it to scrape your web page. Figure out where can you start to insert those quotes and data points onto pages that you have today. That's like one of the most high value things you can go do and is like the the shortcut to validating a lot of what you saw today. Um so uh I wanted to continue the theme of stop the slop. Um we actually and I I like I put up here we want to see your name up in lights too. We were privileged to run really cool brand campaign recently where Connor was one of our featured people on like Bush Shelter. So we're invested in making sure people win and like get seen in AI search. So all of these resources are free. They're non-restrictive to Aerops. You can bring them to any tool you want. So we just want to have people who win in this industry. So if you scan that QR code or you just email um growthops.com, I'll personally follow up with you. Uh what you'll get is a full guide to what I just mentioned there on what you can do this week. Um people mentioned cohort in the chat. We kind of do two week live sessions where you dive deeper into recreating some of what Adena and Connor showed. Josh Grant is someone I really uh appreciate in the industry producing really good content. I'll give you a link to his recent Substack article. And then um also if anyone wants a demo of Aerops, sure, happy to walk you through or give you some more access than what's on our current free tier. But scan the QR code, email us, happy to connect, but we're here for lots of resources. >> Awesome. And then uh Connor and Nadina, we're gonna drop your LinkedIn. I didn't ask you guys this in advance, but we're gonna do it anyways because you volunteered to be the startup. We're gonna drop your LinkedIn uh links, profiles into chat right now. Um and you can connect with Adena or Connor. Maybe if uh maybe within within the next uh 48 hours, if you have a very specific logical follow-up question for Connor, Dina, they can't answer questions forever, but certainly in the next 48 hours. Is that fair, Connor? Ina, they can ping you on LinkedIn and ask you a followup question to what they showed you, what you showed today. >> Yeah, give me a little grace on timing, but I'm a nerd about this stuff, so I love to go down rabbit holes. Happy to help. >> Okay, no time limit for Connor. He's available forever paying him any time. >> No, I just want to be respectful of your time. We really appreciate you spending it going into the details. Um, and thank you for like showing behind the scenes like what's actually happening and and everything. And and Owen, thank you for sharing that guide. Uh, I read through the notion page last night, the step by step. It really is literally go do this, then this, and this. It's a lot of the, you know, what, uh, it's a 101 version of what Connor and Adena showed, right? Um, which is creating that unique perspective where you're going to find that, whether it be Gong, We Flow, other sales tools where you're recording um, and building out high quality content. So, please check that out. That is a really useful guide. Um, all right. Well, thank you everyone for the time today. This was awesome. Oh, before we go, I'm sorry, we got to do our exit poll. Um, we're going to poll right now. How would you rate today's session? Um, five being very valuable, one being I like to say five being the best 60 minutes of your week or just like a really good 60 minutes of your week and then one being complete waste of time. Give us a rating. Um, if you could that helps us with just with feedback and understanding. Feel free to chat in too if you if you have any quick feedback here about today's session. We wanted to get as tactical and as specific. That's why we brought Connor and Adena in to show you the real stuff behind the scenes. Um, I don't know if people are still filling up the poll, but thank you for for submitting those. Oh, uh, Tatiana, sorry you missed a lot of the session. Um, Stephanie love the tactical. Um, eyes well and truly open. Thank you from Heather. Great information. I can't wait to share and rewatch. I think Lisa says she's sharing this with her boss right after she wanted recording. So, that's a good sign. Um, lots of thank yous here from from everybody. So, all right. Thank you everyone for the time today. We won't take any more. Uh, enjoy your three minutes back. Uh Connor Adena Owen, thank you so much for for spending time with us today.
