# Automate Boring Tasks With Codex and Claude Code in 26 Minutes

Channel: Marketing Against the Grain (HubSpot)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vnrLWWcR8vY
Upload date: 2026-06-17

---

On this episode, we are going to show you an incredible use case with Codex. Codex is the tool of choice for any real AI practitioners at the moment, and Peter Yang is one of the best of it. He's going to come on. He's going to help you build your very first workflow. He's going to give you an eval skill that Codex will build that will make your workflow better every single time you use it. And why does this even matter? If you pick the right workflow, you are going to get a ton of time back to do the work you actually enjoy doing. You can get that all here first and exclusive on Marketing Against the Grain. Peter, thanks very much for coming onto the show. You are going to go through one of the topics I'm fascinated by, which is not only how do you create skills to help you build reusable automations within Codex or Claude, but how do you do evals? How do you know these things are good, going to drive outcomes? >> Yeah, I'm really excited to be here. Yeah, so people might not be familiar, evals is like very much like a software AI product term, but it's something that is really just a mechanism to help teach AI how to make its output better. And we're going to talk about that. We're going to talk about skills today. And Peter, before we get started, you had a pretty hot take. >> Yeah. >> That uh that maybe we start it out with. >> My number one advice for all of you is to basically stop using ChatGPT and Claude and switch your main workflows to Codex and Claude Code. ChatGPT and Claude is like you just chat with it, it replies, and you copy and paste some information back and forth. But Codex and Claude Code can actually get stuff done for you. So that that is a difference, right? And I think anyone can like save so much time in their week in three steps. And the three steps are like number one, just reflect on your past week. What are the tasks that take up the most time or are the most annoying to do? Like the most manual work that you have to do, right? Step two is just like literally lists out every single step of that manual workflow. Like all the stuff that you have to do. And then use Codex or Claude code to turn into a system. So basically just like copy and paste all your manual steps into one of these apps and be like, "Hey, let us work on streamlining this." And I promise you you'll kind of be blown away by what it can actually do through skills or through APIs or through other integrations. >> Peter, one thing I think non-systems builders struggle with. So, if you're not really a systems thinker and you're just doing your work, you might not even think of your work in terms of workflows. You might not even really know what a workflow is, right? Like I go here, I do some research, I create a blog post, I publish it, I go get some data to see if it's performing pretty well, and then I iterate on improving it. But I suspect a lot of content creators would not even think that's a workflow. So, can you maybe help explain how you think of a workflow and then what is a workflow? How do I actually document those things or figure out what workflows I'm even doing day-to-day? >> I think a workflow is basically just like a task that you have to do like let's say more than once a week. And I document them is literally just like listing all the steps that you take. So, I have this like pretty fancy slide for you know, how I used to run my podcast manually. But you don't have to make a fancy slide. You just literally just have to list all of the things that you do, right? So, for example, for running a podcast, before you even record anything, you have to prep the interview guide. You got to research the guest, you know, manually go through a bunch of YouTube interviews and online research. You got to figure out what the structure of interview is, you got to write the guide. And then you send it to the guest. And then you record it in Riverside, right? And then send the recording to the video editor. Then you got to pull the transcript because with the podcast, there's so many different other assets that you have to generate. So, I have a newsletter post tied to it. I have social media posts. I have the thumbnail copy and title takes forever to figure out for for YouTube, right? And then there's other stuff like show notes and other stuff. You got to like make all of this other stuff and then you go back and forth and then finally schedule all this stuff or post all this stuff to the different platforms. And like I repeat this workflow like, you know, once or twice every week cuz I interview one or two guests every week. And it's just like incredibly manual and time-consuming. So, yesterday I spent the whole day working with Codex to figure out how to streamline and automate all of this stuff through skills. >> I think people who are just used to using Claude or Chat GPT are used to doing really quick tasks. You know, like a quick back and forth, a quick copy and paste. I think something really important what you just said is like you spent a lot of your day yesterday in Codex building this. It's like when you're building systems it does take a while and take a lot of iteration, right? >> Yeah, exactly. I used to have a lot of stuff in projects. So, I have a show notes project that has like a bunch of prompts and examples. And I used to just copy and paste stuff back and forth into different platforms, right? And this wasn't bad. It still saved me a lot of time. But I think Codex and Claude could just took it to the next level. So, this is Codex. Don't get intimidated by this stuff, guys. Like it's basically just the chat with AI in different platform, right? So, these are all just like different chats with AI. People talk about like, "Oh, I I built a personal OS and like I built this and that." What the hell is a personal OS? If you want to build a personal OS, then just think about what are your main workflows during the week? Like my main workflows as a creator are like, you know, writing my newsletter posts, running my community, sponsor stuff, and podcast. And and then just kind of map out the steps, right? So, this is the readme file >> [snorts] >> for my various work workflows in my personal OS. And let's look at the podcast one. So, the podcast one I have these skills that I built. And and a skill is pretty much just a text file. It's like a text file with a bunch of instructions for AI. But I have a skill that prepares the podcast workflow for me. And by the way, all these skills is not just like one one shot and you're done. You still have to go back and forth with AI and apply your human taste. But like it just makes it so much easier to kind of back and forth if you build these skills, right? So, I have a podcast prep skill. I have a thumbnail skill to kind of just gut check. Cuz when you make a podcast you want to make sure that the thumbnail, title, and copy is actually interesting. Otherwise, you probably should not make the podcast at all. >> No. >> And then after I record it, I have all these like post-production skills that makes all the individual assets, so I can go back and forth with it. So, by chaining all these skills together, I'm able to kind of like really save a lot of time in my podcast flow. >> Hey guys, we are covering a ton of ground with Peter today, and I know you're probably feeling a little overwhelmed and you want to learn even more. Well, good thing we've got a ton of resources for you. You can scan that QR code, or you can click the link in the description below, and we'll get all of those for free. >> Are you a recent convert to Codex? Cuz you showed us Cloud Projects. >> So, maybe talk about why you migrated to Codex for these systems. >> I I guess as a creator, I have like unlimited usage of both apps. >> [laughter] >> That's why I like You know, I I want to first say that I love both products, but I will say that Codex has really won me over recently. And there's a couple of things that Codex does really well. The thing that it does the best, I think, is like browser use and computer use. If there's no like API to pull information, it can just use the browser and go like browse a bunch of web pages and get the information for you. I find that it's like a lot more robust than what CloudCo has. And I always turn on fast mode for Codex. I'm not going to hit the limits anyway. Uh so, I turn on fast mode, and I'm able to get a lot more work done. >> You know, so much of the internet, especially in the early adopter net, talks about like model and model quality, and that matters, but the software around them matters as much or more, you know? And like a lot of why we want to use Codex right now is because of the actual software harness that they've built, more so than of the core underlying model. >> Could you then maybe run through how you use the system? So, you've kind of documented your workflow, you've gone into Codex. When you've built a skill, do you have to worry about where the skill is saved? Like, maybe talk a little bit about just building the kind of how easy it is to build skills in Codex, and then how you can kind of run them. >> So, let open one of the skills. So, I have a podcast prep skill to research the guest, right? It's just a text file. >> Yeah. >> And it looks pretty complicated, but I did not type any of the stuff. Like, I basically got Codex to do it, and then I reviewed it. The process of building your skill is like you have an idea, like, "Hey, you know, I I want to do research for my guests, and I want to build a skill around it. Uh let's work on it together." Uh ask me any questions that that you have, right? And then you'll ask a bunch of questions. And then the important thing is after you build it, you want to run through the skill manually. You want to test it with something. >> Quick question on skills cuz I build a lot of skills. I would be really honest that I have stopped kind of reading them. I think what you're going to show is I use them, and then I give feedback to Claude to redo the skill. And I'll read them if it doesn't get to the standard that I want, but I try to do it through iteration of usage. >> So, I think there is a risk here that you just eventually leads to AI slop sprout, right? You just have some use. >> Totally. >> So, I actually built a skill called skill editor. Every single time I build a skill, it runs skill editor, and it tries to make the skill as concise as possible, like ideally to one page, and it cuts out all the AI slop terms. It looks for like repetitive instructions. Just to keep it a little bit more tight. >> Yeah. Cuz it over complicates everything, right? And so, I have this I have a very similar skill that I'll run against skills and tries to make them a short >> Yeah. >> the least amount of text for the same amount of power. >> Yeah, exactly. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> So, what is this doing right now? So, it's running podcast prep, and then it's running another skill called thumbnail title and copy to figure out the angle, and it's researching uh a bunch of your past appearances in YouTube to get the transcripts, and and like kind of try to figure out, you know, what kind of interesting angles we can talk about, right? The thing about this remember here with the Codex and Claude code is like if you just ask it, like, "Hey, can you actually just like pull the transcripts from the recent guest from YouTube and like just to save it?" Just ask them the question. Ask them the question, and they'll probably figure out how to do it for you. Like any kind of like online work or activity, you'll probably figure out how to do it for you. Yeah. You just have to ask. >> Especially with computer use in Codex. You can like giving Codex the ability to use your computer, you can get so so much done. >> Exactly. >> If I'm a marketer or someone watching this and I want to build this workflow, could you maybe talk about how has that changed your ability to do podcasting? Like are you able to figure out what has been the core impact or upside to you? >> Um I have just a couple things. Number one, I feel like I'm not doing this work alone anymore. I I think as a creator, it can be kind of a lonely experience, right? It's just my my brain trying to figure things out. But now I feel like I have a really good thought partner to figure out the thumbnail titles and like figure out the angle with me. So that's like super helpful. Like a lot of the work is like manual copying and pasting back and forth in Google Docs and formatting stuff. I have to do all that stuff. And and like you can pretty much just teach Codex to do all that manual work. So hopefully it frees up my mind to you know, either play more of the video games or do think more about about the growth of the overall thing, you know? So So yeah, it unlocks kind of like a higher-order level thinking. I do think um there's kind of like AI psychosis a little bit. And I almost feel like uh if I don't have Codex or Claude code to think with me, like I'm almost a little bit too lazy lazy to to think anymore, you know? Which is probably not a good thing. >> I guess that's where I would jump in here is like I think Kieran and I violently agree with something you said earlier where if you don't have like the human taste review in any of the work you're doing with AI, the work's not going to be great. But then I guess my follow-up would be if like if this AI psychosis is real and you're constantly using AI, do you think that like dilutes your taste? >> I think it could help you refine your taste cuz like you know, for example, I have a personal advisor skill where like there's some principles I really want to remember, you know, like for example, one of the principles is keep the main thing the main thing cuz cuz like as a creator, you can easily like like I can go make a course, I can go write a book, I can go do I can go to like a bunch of AI conferences. But like the main thing is like making a podcast and the newsletter are good. So So it kind of reminds me of that. Like sometimes I forget. But yeah, you you do kind of get a little bit lazy. You kind of like ask the AI a bunch of questions and rely on to give you a bunch of answers that you kind of make a judgment on as opposed to kind of thinking through the answers yourself. >> I think that is something to be mindful of because I have experienced the same thing. There's two things you kind of start to experience. Harvard Business Review came out with an article I think in in March of this year where they talked about something called I think it was AI brain fatigue. But one of the things in there they said because you kind of feel like you should be running a multitude of tasks at any one time, right? So like in a pre-AI world, you might be multitasking a little bit, but you're kind of like trying to do one task at a time because you can only do one task at a time. Whereas with AI, you feel like you're under-productive if you're not running a multitude of different things at once because the agents are running things. And they had this like pretty cool article that said people were getting migraines, brain fatigue, and really wondering like what am I even working on because they have so many things going at once. One of the best things I built out in the past 6 months in Cloud Code was like an entire content system and it works really well. And I got really addicted to using it. And I realized I went to like Grammarly just to write something by myself and I couldn't figure out how to start the thing. Like I just couldn't start from scratch. >> You turned yourself into an editor. >> Yeah, and it's not too dissimilar to critical thinking cuz you made that point. I see that as well where like you're or I'm going to try and solve this problem and your brain it just doesn't naturally kick in the way it used to because I'm like, okay, well, the first thing I would do is I tell Claude, here's the problem, frame it up in these three ways and do some first principle thinking. And so you definitely have to be very conscientious of offloading your skills to an AI machine of the AI is getting so good that it could just be like the calculator. Like I don't want to use a cuz I want to be able to do math. Well, you're going to be behind everyone else, but I do get nervous about that. >> I feel like we've had 3 years to learn stuff without AI. So, I just hope people like like me still have some critical thinking, but like I feel I worry about the next generation cuz they have AI access from day one. >> To be a creator, you need to be the genesis of information, I really do believe. And so, like then I think that's why you kind of went back to be like, "Hey, Kieran, you're like, "I'm going to write a first draft." And it might be a messy first draft, but it's my first draft. And then I can work with AI from that, right? >> freeing as well. Like I I've just forgotten how much I just love to write and not ask AI, "Do you think this is good? How would you make that better?" I'm not saying AI isn't great as a writing assistant, I still would recommend it, but I don't know, there's something like pretty freeing about just writing words and not having to ask an AI assistant how it thinks about these things and would it improve them. >> [laughter] >> Like the reason I didn't generate the stuff is I gave it just a bunch of really good examples of really good thumbnails and titles, right? But sometimes they can go overboard. Like once again, it's not like one shot, I have to give it three feedback. Uh be like, "Hey, you know, don't go overboard." and then go back and forth and apply my taste to it. >> The thing I found that has worked really well for these kind of things is it first reads some sort of context file or like a couple of files in a context layer or like foundational layer. So, like an example for this would be you have your audience profile and that audience profile has been built from what has worked and what hasn't worked. And so, it first checks that and then that's how it's determining what are episode ideas and then how does it rank those ideas? So, does it do anything like that? >> Uh yeah, I have I have a couple of lines about, "Hey, here's my background and my audience really likes practical and no  tutorials and just like stuff they can implement right away." So, like try to make it more practical focused. >> Your skills are as good as the context they have. And so, the more information you can give them in terms of what outcome you're looking for, the more valuable they're going to be. >> It's all about managing the context window at the end of the day. Yeah, high-quality context is what matters. Okay, so let's switch gears. Why don't you write a post based on your research of Kieran about how to use AI for marketing? Just write a job post and put it in chat. All right, cool. So, I'm just going to write a draft and then I think what we'll do is we can run an eval on the draft. >> Okay, very cool. >> Yeah. So, this is the draft. And we'll say, "Can you run the eval on this draft and also put the whole eval table with checkboxes in chat?" And eval is like an evaluation, which is basically getting the AI to check its own work. You don't want the original agent that wrote the draft to run the eval cuz there's some bias there. If you ask me to, you know, review my own work, I'll I'll say it looks it looks great. >> [laughter] >> Right? So, there's different types of evals. The most straightforward eval is just like pass or fail. There's other evals where like, "Hey, you want to give it like a score, like a four out of five, three out of five." But like I'll I'll tell you, AI is very bad at giving scores. If you're like, "Hey, give me an eval of how authentic this post is." three out of five, four out of five. It has no clue the difference between a three out of five and a four out of five. Even if you give it a bunch of instructions. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> So, I just recommend keeping your evals simple. Just do simple pass-fail checks. The great thing about that is once you have these checks in place, if it fails any of these checks, then you can just ask it to keep editing the draft until it passes all of the checks. Right? So, then it kind of kind of like self-iterate and improve itself. >> I guess your like the eval will be based upon what is the perfect podcast episode for your channel. How did you create the eval and how did you know what were the right things to look for? >> You can get it to create an initial eval just based on your examples. Like if it's like a content editing skill, you want to give it a bunch of examples of your best content, your best output, right? And then you can be like, "Hey, just like can you just create an eval pass-fail based on the examples?" But I think the real way to create evals and make them good is to actually just run the skill through a bunch of manual processes, right? So, let's say I I an edit newsletter skill and then I use it to edit while my newsletter post. And then through the conversation it's like using too many M dashes or like, you know, it's like writing too long. So then I'm like, okay, so based on this conversation, can you update the eval to include some things that we learned in this conversation? And then it'll be like, okay, I'm going to check maximum two M dashes. That's like pass fail. And then you can either say, yes, that sounds good or you can say, no, it doesn't not sound good. So for example, here's the eval that I have for my newsletter post. All my newsletter posts have a newsletter format. Doesn't open with dear subscribers. Is the hook line short enough to kind of like catch people's attention? Is the post free of M dashes? Is is like no slop? There's a lot of bunch of other stuff. So it drafts the post and then it checks each of these things, yeah, yes, no. And if anything fails, it it like gets the other agent to edit the post again. >> I think this is a really important point and why so much that of work that people do with AI is not good. It's not just because a lot of people don't use evals, it's cuz if you look at what an eval is, it's actually somebody being very clear and committing to what they want and what is good. And I think so many people have a problem with that, right? Like [laughter] it's like, oh, I don't know what I'm actually creating, so I'm just kind of all over the place. Where you're like, you were like, I know the formula and because I know the formula, I can have a real complete system to evaluate whether I'm meeting that bar every single time or not. >> You can pretty much build evals for anything, right? If you're trying to pull some stats from or do some online research, you can be like, hey, did you research at least 10 sources? Yes, no. Did you research the recent interviews from YouTube in the last 30 days? Yes, no. You can pretty much build evals for anything. Another lesson I think is the skill and the eval that's tied to a skill is like a live working document, right? You know, I've been a PM for example for like over a decade and like a lot of engineers ask me, hey, when's the PRD going to be done? When's the spec going to be done? And the spec is like never done cuz you're always learning something new. So, just same thing with a skill and eval. As you run through like manual passes, as you use it, if you learn something new, just ask the AI to improve your skill in the eval, right? And double-check his work, and then slowly but surely your skill get more and more effective over time. >> I have done evals for that content system, and one of the kind of gotchas is if the eval is trying to do any kind of judgment or of taste, then it primarily likes itself. Like one of the >> It does. >> I kind of tried to do this eval, and I was like, uh here's what like a great writing sounds like, and it would kind of map my audience profile. And like interestingly, whenever I would update with like free-form content that I would update the post with versus Claude updated it itself, it always preferred its own writing, which I kind of thought was funny. Which you can kind of get into it when it's like when it's doing an eval of like judgment and taste, it prefers itself, and you get into this kind of cycle of like does it really understand judgment and taste? I think the human is better. But I think what's fascinating is your eval is more on the kind of formulaic way that you want to create that content. Like things that you can actually It's not so much judgment and taste. It's like there's a formula, and there's like core criteria in that formula, and you're like evaluating to see if those things exist or not. And it's actually a pretty interesting thing for a creators, because if you're a business and your team are creating skills, I think it would be a pretty good service to actually have creators create your evals. Because creators would know what the criteria is for like a winning YouTube video. For you they could like figure out what the winning formula is for a YouTube video, or they could figure out what the winning formula is for like a LinkedIn post, and they could actually write your eval for you, and it would actually help uplevel your team pretty quickly, actually. >> There's a lot of ghostwriters out there. Maybe there's like a eval writer >> I also think AI Shaman is so dumb. Because AI is going to be intrinsic to how anything works, and so it's It's and it doesn't matter if you use AI if the outcome is still like good, right? You judge something on the outcome, not how it was created. We are in the messy middle of like AI hate a little bit. There's just like shaming of anyone who uses AI in a creative way, which is I think is pretty dumb. >> I feel like hearing that there is a lot of shaming cuz around this notion that like, "Oh, you just used AI and didn't do any work yourself." You know, and I think that's what a lot of the sentiment comes from. And I think one of the themes that we've talked about the last couple of minutes is that if you're creating something, if you're working on something with AI, you kind of have a partner. And there are some things that AI is really good at, like evals and systems, and things that a human is really good at, like taste and judgment. And if you don't have the human side of it, then it is going to feel very average and, you know, shift to the median and not going to actually stand out and feel like AI slop. And so it's like, yeah, if you just outsource everything to AI, it's not going to be good. But if you work with AI, there should be no backlash against that, right? >> Well, the idea still matters. Like that's the big thing I think is There was a piece of content that went really viral and asked for someone wrote a post that everyone quoted that is like, "Wow, things are moving much faster than I had expected, and here's all of the repercussions because of that." And it was quoted everywhere. And Opus wrote that post because I do so much creating with AI, I could like decipher the patterns. But it didn't stop it being a great post, right? And so I still think the idea is intrinsic to like having a good outcome. >> It's kind of like a balance, like with anything else. For example, if a creator like they follow a bunch of top accounts and just set up like automatic AI replies to all the accounts, which which is like all of our XD states, right? >> Yeah, yeah. >> And like I I I I find that like super annoying. Like I have to block all these people. But like, is it probably getting the results? It probably is. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Just coming back to your workflow, maybe as we wrap up this conversation, one of the things I probably would do now after watching you work through that, which is like, "Hey, I'll get the workflow built skills to evals." And I still kind of come back to, "Okay, well, I would love to get started. I'm going to like get my Codex set up, and I'm going to start building some of these uh skills and automate them some of my workflows." Okay, what are some of the things I do each and every day? I think if you just build a little ritual for yourself across 1 week where you went in to Codex and had a conversation at the end of the day and told Codex about your day. Uh I did this, I did that. These are the things I did. And then at the end of that week, it could take all of those transcripts and say, "Okay, based upon what I've heard, here are like the top things that I'm going to start to build skills for." And that would be an easy way for someone who is non-technical, but really wants to start doing this stuff, I think to get started on like what workflows to prioritize. >> Yeah, I totally agree. In fact, why don't we uh quickly see what Codex says about this. So, it has memory of everything that we do. So, I busy just asked it, "Based on our conversations, what else can we streamline?" So, it says like there's too many evals. You should just have one eval for everything. >> [laughter] >> Yeah. Turn podcast prepping into social newsletter ideas. So, okay, so you do research about Kieran, and then maybe you can turn that into a newsletter angle, too. There's a skill for live demo safe mode, not sharing any financial information. >> [laughter] >> There's a skill to clean up stuff up. Yeah. So, yeah, it'll give you a bunch of ideas. >> Yeah, I think it's pretty incredible when you really start to integrate it into all of your personal kind of data as well. >> Yeah, I've integrated it to my scale, and I built like a fitness app to track workouts. So, I asked a little bit of MCP for that, too. So, now it can tell me like, "Hey, what's your body fat?" And like, "You missed some progress on these lifts." And so on and so forth. And uh yeah, it feels like a very helpful partner. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Kieran, you're living in the future, my friend. >> And thank you for coming and sharing with our audience a little bit of what the future looks like, because I think there are a lot of people who could honestly just even do one basic workflow that they hate every week with like a few skills and an eval that would be a life-changing experience for them. Don't Don't you think so, Kieran? Even if you just one thing. >> Yeah, I think if you watch this, you have a conversation with Codex, you pick one workflow, you build a skill, you build an eval, that's an incredible way to get started on your journey of using AI to integrate into your work. >> And if you pick the right thing, you're going to save yourself a lot of time. >> Yeah. >> Just remember if this stuff is intimidating, just like when you say you build it, it's really you ask the AI to build it. It's the same Ask the AI. >> Or just a data giver. >> [laughter] >> Data giver. Data Data giver. You know. >> Yeah, AI is doing all the work. I mean, I don't know if that's a good thing or a bad thing, but it does it. >> Yeah, it's both, I think. Um but with all of that, Peter, thank you so much for joining us today, and we'll see everybody really soon on the next episode of Marketing Against the Grain. >> This data is wrong every freaking time. >> Have you heard of HubSpot? HubSpot is a [music] CRM platform where everything is fully integrated. >> Well, I can see the client's whole history, call, support tickets, emails, and here's a task from 3 days ago [music] I totally missed. >> HubSpot, grow better.
