# What Chipotle For Real Can Teach Marketers About Simplicity - Alicia diVittorio (Silverfort)

Channel: Caspian Studios (Remarkable Content w/ Ian Faison)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Cl2R1vHddY8
Upload date: 2026-05-05

---

I saw this ad and I'm like, "Oh, I know that song." So really, that was the initial thing that attracted me to the Chipotle for real campaign. >> Their CMO, Chris Brandt, said the campaign was going to bring Chipotle back to its roots, focusing on real food and ingredient transparency. >> The fact that it's just like two or three words and really just clear visuals to communicate their differentiation and competitively deposition against the other fast food or fast casual restaurants. I'm like, "How can I apply that to my day-to-day in B2B marketing?" And it's such a classic marketing technique. It's nothing new, but it's just the simplicity of it that works. >> Chipotle, if you're listening, we'll send you the consulting check. >> This is the best thing I've ever seen. >> That Let's talk about that. >> Listen to this. >> Listen to this. >> Memorable. Will it be less boring? >> Boring. >> Remarkable. >> Remarkable. >> Remarkable. >> Remarkable. >> I'm Ian Faison, CEO of Caspian Studios. You're listening to Remarkable. This week, we're talking about marketing lessons from Chipotle's For Real segment. >> Describe the chicken to someone who had never tasted it. >> Literally melt in your mouth tender. We don't have a freezer, you know? It's almost like a farmers market. When you walk into the restaurant, you should hear the sizzle that you're hearing right now. just sends all those waves up to your mouth. >> You're making me hungry. >> With the help of our special guest, head of global corporate marketing at Silverford, Alisia, how are you? >> I'm doing well. How are you doing, Ian? >> Oh, I am so excited to have you on the show today. Uh talking Chipotle. I actually had Chipotle not two nights ago. Uh we So, uh I had it for real. Uh >> no, good. I did not, but my children did cuz they make me go to Chipotle all the time and >> love Chipotle, but I may have eaten a little bit too much of it because I have children who love it a lot. So, sometimes they just get it and not me. >> We also had it for uh for child reason reasons, although my son said it was too picy. So, uh I don't know if we got >> I like that. >> We got something incorrect in there. >> Yeah, they're No, they're guacamole can edge on the spicy side and that definitely turns off the kids. >> I know. I know. Okay. So, we'll get all into that here in a second. And of course, uh and of course, uh your time is over for So, why the heck did you pick Chipotle's for real campaign to talk about today? >> Well, honestly, I'm going to tell you the truth. The first part of it is the song. Everybody got choices. >> So a couple years ago, my husband used to play that song on repeat in our house and I was like h and so then I saw this ad and I'm like oh I know that song. And then of course because you know Chipotle is attaching it to a cult uh like a popup cultural reference that I'm very familiar with because of my husband I like paid much closer attention to what the message was telling me because let's be real I don't always pay attention to all the ads unless I'm looking at it for work purposes and learning from other things. Um so really that was the initial thing that attracted me to the Chipotle for real campaign and that ad specifically. Yeah, I think that's kind of like the highlight, but I think how I've applied it to with the way I think of my work. I mean, I just the fact that it's just like two or three words and really just clear visuals to communicate their diff differentiation and competitively deposition against, you know, the other fast food or fast casual restaurants that you want that you're seeing is kind of what I'm like, how can I apply that to my day-to-day in B2B marketing? >> And zoom out, tell us about Silver for in your role. So at Silverford uh I run the corporate marketing and brand. So that means that I do everything looking overseeing the brand team comms PR analyst relations and the content marketing which includes website and social media and all that good stuff that go comes along with it. >> Meredith, what the heck is Chipotle for real? Chipotle's for real campaign uh was really a comeback campaign and I think the truth is that they were in some pretty hot water back in between like 2015 to 2018 and so they had to sort of recoup their brand and the integrity of their brand. Um they had had some pretty big foodborne illness outbreaks that were linked back to their restaurants. Um, so people were getting like E.coli, Salmonella. Um, and they were having to close their restaurants and they got some pretty intense negative publicity about it. It actually culminated in this pretty big, it was a $25 million settlement with the US Department of Justice in 2020 linked to those outbreaks. And so they were like, we need to, you know, address this headon. they decided to partner with a an agency Fenibals Bell & Partners to um partner with on this campaign to sort of turn around their public image. Their CMO Chris Brandt said the campaign was going to bring Chipotle back to its roots. So, they wanted to reposition their brand focusing on real food and sort of the the simplicity of the ingredients and ingredient transparency. And so for these ads, they highlighted the ingredient list itself as well as their hands-on preparation of the food and had that all at the center of their message. >> You're really making all of this by hand. >> Oh, yes. The avocados are hand mashed. The chips are hand tossed and everything is made fresh. >> You make it fresh every day? >> Yes, every day. The Chipotle way is we make it fresh every day. >> Sounds delicious. The launch included this full page New York Times ad, TV spots, digital and print placements, intore messaging and posts on their channels. And they also created this new Instagram handle dedicated solely to um Chipotle for real. Um and they used it to educate people on their both their brand and their values. Um and so their focus was really like food integrity and trust. And um they use this to later expand and um do some more creative focused on transparency like their behind the foil campaign. Um I personally love Chipotle. I've had it many times, never gotten sick. Um and I didn't actually didn't even know this was a thing in the news. So um I think what's amazing is like how >> one I didn't even know about it. not I maybe live under a rock, but also um just that like it's clear that this campaign works and sticks. Um and so curious, Lisio, when like your first experience with this campaign and um if it changed your opinion of Chipotle or whether you just thought that it was a sticky campaign, >> it I would say that it reminded me of why we always liked Chipotle from the old days. And to your point, they went back to their roots. They're they're wholesome good ingredients like and so I feel like it made it reminded me of why we fell in love with Chipotle in the originally and as I kind of alluded to earlier I've not necessarily fallen out of of love with Chipotle because I've had to eat it a lot with my children but but I just think it reminds me of why we we all like it and sticking true to your roots I think is something that you can apply to any brand is like sometimes I think that people when they're evolving or shifting And you do need to evolve a brand and your message, but sometimes you really have to remind yourselves of your core value and make sure that comes to the top. And then that's why people fell in love with you in the first place. You gota you got to re you got to remind yourself of that sometimes. And I think that's what we're seeing in this campaign a bit. >> I think that this is a really good example of um you know what I call fight where you can win is like >> this is them, right? Like real ingredients, right? like that. It's super people are looking for this. Some people are not. Uh when you you want when you go to Chipotle, you want like the exact same sort of experience every time. Um you know what you're getting. And uh and I think it's really and I think it's just really smart. I think the um >> uh I think the the print ads are are really clever. the the only ingredient that's hard to pronounce at Chipotle is Chipotle and it has a list of all the ingredients. >> Um I think all of that is really clever. >> I think uh if I were to my critique of it is that they should have done more of it and they should still do more of it and they've done some stuff like they they do point to real ingredients in in some of their more modern marketing and some like modern marketing examples and they they have versions of that. Um uh but um but I think that this is like such a hallmark for them that it's something that I wonder if they should have just like went harder on, you know? Um and it's something that they should like really have I mean like they don't I don't think that they have like an actual tagline, do they? Um or slogan or whatever, but um No, I don't think they do. Right. >> They do. I don't think they do. Yeah, I >> I couldn't find it. Definitely. It's not it's not so visible cuz it's it's it's you know, it says Mexican Grill in the in like the name and in everything. So, that's like sort of the closest, you know, thing that um you know, I would I would say is close, which is funny cuz I would I would never if I described it to a friend, I would never say a Mexican grill. Um >> never. >> I never thought about that. >> It's It's like >> it's like, "Hey, do you want some grilled food? Let's go to Chipotle. Um anyways, uh but I but what I do think of is like fresh ingredients, right? Where it's like, hey, I know that I can go here and you know, my kids can eat the burrito. >> Yeah. >> And you don't feel too bad with them eating it because it's fairly you at least hope it's still pretty fresh that it was. They're holding to their brand promise that they had what was that >> 15 years ago? I don't even know when Chipotle came to be, but you know, 15 20 years ago at this point. >> Yeah. Exactly right. And and then, you know, the other thing that I would that I would sort of like, you know, um and again, I I don't know how much they were, you know, doing for this, but I do think it just speaks to sort of perhaps sometimes the short-sightedness of marketing campaigns that, you know, the the classic when you're sick of hearing it, your audience is probably starting to hear it for the first time. Like I really like the fact that Meredith noted Chipotle enthusiasts. No, I'm kidding. Um >> it's true. >> I I didn't know about this campaign before we started studying it either. I had no idea. So like it just sort of and I like I said, I ate it like two days ago. Um so like it's they're not beating you over the head with it. And I wonder if they should be, right? >> Yeah. No, I think there's a lesson in that. >> For sure. >> For for sure. I mean it's like what I always sort of think of like these type of messaging as like what is the downside of like beating people over the head with your messaging right it's like if that's your core sort of brand promise is you know that you can name all 51 ingredients like you everyone should know that right like BaskinRobins 31 flavors or or whatever you know Hines 57 whatever that is you know like like that like there's a reason why they did those forever, right? Um that it's not just like a onetime thing. And so I just, you know, I wonder I wonder if this should have just been a forever campaign for them. Uh and not >> it could be I mean it could be just the beginning of it too. Like I also think that sometimes at least in my world you sometimes have to have a little bit of faith in what you're doing and your message. And I think what people do is like oh let's just test it. Let's AB test it. And if you're not seeing immediate results, you're like, I got to shift. And then you realize you've shifted too quickly to to your point, Ian. Has it even sunk in? Have people even under like figured out what you're trying to say? Have you even had a chance to define what you mean by well, in this case, it's easy because it's real ingredients, real food. But like in our world, in my world, it's like, oh gosh, I have to define something that's a little bit more complex. But still, it's like you got to let things sink in. And sometimes I think we as marketers will get pressure from your seauite. It's like, "Oh, is it working?" And you're like, "Well, this stuff takes time." Branding doesn't happen overnight. >> So, you really have to let it sink in so people can understand that value and your brand promise and actually trust that what you're saying is actually what you mean and are delivering on it, if you will. You know, >> it's when it's so core to your product that like they always want people to know this. That's the thing for me. It's like >> no matter what like if if your company is built on speed, you always want people to know that speed is you know what it it might not be the messaging that you're going to market with uh constantly because you have like an H1 messaging that you need to get in front of people like hey you know uh you know speed and we have a new color teal you know or whatever right um >> that you want might want to lead with with the teal thing but for them it's like this is ex this is exactly who you are like this is who forever ever. It's who you are and it's who you've always been. Um and uh and then the execution of that is is where you know the devil's in the details, right? Um and um and I think that there's also just like at least to my understanding um is that there is a huge market of people who do really care about this. What I would be curious about is like did they feel like people cared about it, right? Is this just something that they think that people care about and that's why they put it out there like, "Hey, this is true about us." Like, "Hey, Ian's a good friend." You know, like if I tell everyone Ian's a good friend and they're like, you know, "Hey, Ian's a great friend." That doesn't that doesn't help them choose Caspian to do business with, you know, like because he's a great husband, right? So, it's like that that's the thing that I wonder um because it was a really good campaign. Um and they still are, like I said, they're still doing parts of it uh that I've seen. But again, it's not the tagline, which is interesting to me. >> Well, I would argue that I think that they hit on something that we wanted more than anything because we like they were kind of the first fast casual out there that everyone felt like, oh, I can get a decent healthy meal >> in a fast way. And then they just basically were the trends setter for all the other fast casuals that we've seen >> because we were so sick of the McDonald's and the Burger Kings and all the other ones where you're just like, a, the food's crap. You don't know what's in it. And so that was why Chipotle was such a game changer. And so this is kind of going back to those roots of like, no, we still are here. We still do this. We still don't have like a patty that's, you know, coming in from Brazil that's been frozen for 10 years or whatever and then putting it out for you. So it's like I think that's that's still that's they're taking it back to their roots and that's why they were so successful when they first took off. >> Yeah. Per that I know and again we both live in the same area so perhaps and we're both >> Yeah. Right. >> Like Maybe we're drinking the uh uh drinking the avocado uh guacamole here. Um I'm going to say I'm going to say some stuff and I want you to to to give me your reactions to it. Are you ready? >> Okay. Yeah. Go ahead. >> Okay. What do you like the and you can just at at the end of it you can tell me what your favorite stuff is. Uh fresh every day. Good food. Good person. Microwaves not welcome. straight to your burrito. Freshest of the fresh. Uh, all you got to know, real ingredients, real flavor, for real. Um, and I'm curious just like from me saying all that stuff. So, these are all titles of actual YouTube videos on Chipotle's campaign from seven years ago. I'm going to tell you, I was most attracted to Microwaves Not Welcome. >> Amazing copy. >> So good. >> It's incredible. >> So good. >> Microwaves Not Welcome is so good. And I >> It just gets to the point, >> dude. >> So much quick more quickly than the rest of them that are a little bit more generic. Like I felt like a couple of them could have been Baja Freshes. >> That's ex My thought exactly was like real ingredients, real flavor, Chipotle for real. And the first thing you think of is, isn't there another brand that says real ingredients, real pizza? >> Like literally, right? That's isn't that Papa John's or something like that? >> Something like that or Yeah. >> Right. But like Microwave is not welcome. I was like, "Oh my gosh, that's such good copy." So they did this campaign where they they posted all these videos of people making the food fresh uh of in actual stores and like how they make it and all those things. Um as you know as part of this um as part of this campaign. Um and then those were some of the titles. And I think that like it speaks to me looking at something like this where I think so important for the brand to take a stand on this. So important to get it out there. so important to like point at all of these. Um, uh, but there's certain nuances in the copy that just don't resonate even though the actual message resonates. And I think that that's like >> that's the name of the game with this stuff, right? It's like it's like no microwave. And they they also have some that's like no microwave, no microwave, you know, whatever. Uh, which is which is good, but like there's a huge difference between saying no microwave and microwave is not welcome. That's such a stronger >> well point of view. >> Yeah, >> it's the point of view and this is why I mean I'm going to talk about comm's people and PR people for a second here because we have to have a good point of view when we are pitching media or whatever because if you don't have a unique point of view, no one cares. You sound like everyone else. So I think that's why you see so many comm's people pushing into brand and stuff like that because we've been forced to be really like prescriptive with how we really differentiate that point of view. And with that the microwave message, it's just a little bit more provocative and you got to be provocative if you want to stand out, right? >> Totally. Here's another I got some more for you. >> Okay, let's hear >> um can openers, microwaves, and heat lamps aren't something Robbie or any other team member has ever used at Chipotle. Now, as a copywriter, you just can't put or any other team member in that copy. It's like you just got to say can openers are something Robbie has never used at Chipotle. And that tells you exactly the message. But anyways, I digress. What the the bigger picture is like can openers, microwaves, heat lamps, like so good. That's such good. >> So good. It's so good. It's like that gets at what for real means, right? This is human beings cooking food, >> right? >> Human beings cooking food. And it's not sitting there. It's not old. It's not stale. Again, it's the competitive depositioning without saying it in a gross way. It's it's a it's a clever way. And so that's why it's good. >> The other thing that I I keep thinking about with this um is I never This is me personally, and so I'm curious what other people think. Um, I ne when I want a burrito, I don't get Chipotle. I go to like a Takaria. Right. Me, too. >> So, to me, Yeah. Right. So, to me, Chipotle doesn't actually compete with burritos. It competes with to your point, it competes with fast casual. >> Yes. >> For me personally, >> absolutely. Right. So, it's like it's it's actually competing with the counter or uh the counter is a burger place or uh you know, whatever else it is, which to me it's it's actually competing with other places that also use real ingredients. Um uh which >> that's Yeah. >> Yeah. Which which is not not the case for everyone. These are are positionings that other companies in this same competitive landscape have also adopted so that um you know so that to to sort of compete on the same sort of like you know wavelength here. But for other people they are when they are thinking of getting a burrito somewhere else they are thinking of this versus a different burrito and real ingredients uh or you know for real that does wholly different differentiate it um for sure right because you're looking for consistency you're looking for real you're looking for you know is it is it moderately healthy you know like all those um you're going to get the bowl, so you're not going to, you know, it's it's going to be healthier for you. And like that's that's where I think that you have um >> where this campaign I think is really brilliant is like you you're you're sort of able to fight on multiple fronts with one thing. Um even though it's really simple. >> Yeah, I think so. So, and I think if you think about when you're going to go to Chipotle, going back to like who you're actually competing with, they're competing with the regular fast food because I mean, yeah, I do eat Chipotle in my hometown a fair amount because of the kids, but we eat it way more if we're like going off on a trip somewhere, right? Because, you know, the consistency, you know, you get a relatively healthy meal on the road and you're not, you know, putting a bajillion chemicals into your body that you might be getting from somewhere else. And I feel like that's their big thing that they can tout when they're competing against the traditional fast fast food restaurants out there. Um, but you're right, like I don't go like I go to like the Takaria or another place for a burrito or a taco. Um, yeah. It's not competing with those guys. >> Yeah. Not at all. Right. >> But I also think you got to think about the demo too. Like the demo of who they're going after, right? And that's the whole thing too. Like >> Yeah. Well, so and I was going to get into that a little bit too. So Chipotle um had a sponsorship um with the US soccer teams. Uh and so Chipotle um uh they basically um the the the the US soccer teams love Chipotle. And so um and you can imagine why, right? Like if you're a soccer player between the ages of let's say I don't know 10 and 25, you're eating a lot of Chipotle, right? Like >> Yeah. >> Um >> so like for example, Christian Pissik, one of my favorite soccer players of all time, uh is a brand ambassador for Chipotle. I don't know if he is like today, but he was. And so he had the Christian Pissic bowl. Um that was like, you know, his thing, which is, you know, it was is very much a like soccer player. like, you know, nothing bad for you or minimal bad for you. And in 2022, they did this like bowl bowls for goals and like all that sort of stuff. And um and this is so this is much after the sort of like real ingredients and this is just something where it's like totally different demographic. Not where you leave it for real, not because you know the kid who's 16 who gets out of soccer practice does not care about real ingredients, >> right? probably. Um, >> well, my kids do a little bit because I ham hammer at home, but I'm like a weird Californian, so, you know, >> Well, that's what I was going to say, right? Is like, but mom and dad are like, don't go eat at, you know, the grease factory. Um, go get go get the the, you know, go get something that's a little bit more healthy. And I think and I and I again, I think it's just like looking at these types of campaigns as sort of nested. Um, >> yeah. where you have parent positioning versus kid positioning and sort of like where those both sit. And like if you go into a Chipotle, at least where I live, it's like there's kids in soccer jerseys who are getting it after practice or a game or whatever. And it's like that is what lunchtime is. And so like it does that happen at McDonald's? For sure. That definitely does. Um >> but uh but there's not as clear of a connection there, right? Whereas like right >> the Christian political bowl is about at its core real ingredients and food that is like way better and more healthy than the alternative and so it's nested within this sort of for real positioning. >> Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. I also wonder like the song that they picked, the E40 song for the For Real campaign, is that expanding its demo to other areas and other people who would loan a song and be drawn to it and want to go eat Chipotle, right? So, I feel like going the soccer route, breaking into that market, breaking in with music to into a different market, you can kind of see how they're doing that systematically, breaking into other demos who are traditionally perhaps eating somewhere else, right? as someone who who saw E40 perform when the Wall Street Journal came out uh which I think is about I don't know 20 years ago at this point. Um and a big fan of uh of E40 in general. Shout out to E40 for making a perfect song. I don't know if he did it I don't know if he did it intentionally to be a perfect song for uh for advertisers someday, but boy is he going to make a mint off of just uh the licensing on this thing. >> I mean totally. I mean that's I after I showed I talked talked to my husband about it. You asked who did I show to? I showed my PMM, my counterpart on product marketing and I said, "Dude, we could we this is something we need to think about doing." Like it's so easy and so simple. You show the old way versus the new way. It's and it's such a classic marketing technique. It's nothing new, but it's just the simplicity of it that works. And you can find these really simple visuals to communicate. >> Yeah, that's what happened. And Nope. Yep. And it's so easy. So easy. >> So they dropped Chipotle Choices on YouTube uh two months ago. 17 million views. Oh, and then for real is on the bag. Oh my goodness. We're going to have to redo the whole beginning of this. Look at this. But see, this is this is this is it. >> But was it on there always? I'll have to look. >> I don't know. The bag says 53 real ingredients. Ooh, they added two ingredients. I wonder what they were. Okay. All right. Now, I have a new critique. >> Okay. Let's hear it. >> They need to do better typography because I had I have a Chipotle bag in my in my child's bedroom. He ate Chipotle chips last night before bed. Sorry. Sorry to the other parents out there. Uh, I had a weak moment and I stared at it for like two days and I didn't realize that it said for real on there. So, they do have a tagline, but it's not on the website. Yeah, it's definitely not. >> No, it's not. You're right. I mean, I have some critiques on how some of their marketing well I love the clearly I'm into the campaign, but feel like some of the marketing in store has shifted a little too fast foodie for my take personally, but that's just again I'm not sure if I'm I don't know if I'm the target demo anymore as much as like they don't need to expand to me anymore. So, they're going elsewhere because they've already got me. They've already got my family. We're hooked. But how do they make sure they're appealing to other demographics? >> I don't know. >> I guess this was my critique. This is my critique as well. Right. I didn't really know. And if I didn't really know, then they're not shouting it from the rooftops. Right. >> Right. >> Yeah. >> Like that's the thing. It's like, man, that's so funny. I've seen so many of those Chipotle bags over the years, and it's just like a bunch of random stuff on there. I now totally get I totally get why the bags have all that crazy ass writing on there. That's so funny. >> Yeah, I never paid attention either to the bags. >> See, this is like this is a missed opportunity. We figured it out. Chipotle, if you're listening, we'll send you the consulting check. And also, >> well, keep going. And then I have a comment on this because um I want that on a bowl. But uh not to digress away from Chipotle, but to talk about a brand who has used really fun human copy and design and I have actually read it is Oatley. Do you ever do you get Oatley? >> Let's talk about it. >> I love Oatley. >> Uh you know the side of Oly. It says like the like the boring side or whatever they they say it. It's like the unfun side or the the boring side. and they talk about all the ingredients. It's so clever. And I've actually sat there, it's 6:00 in the morning when I'm making my latte for my before I go sit down and work all day, I will read the back of my freaking Oatley can um box because it's it's interesting and engaging and it's funny >> and it's human. >> Whereas I guess that's what they're trying to do with the Chipotle thing. But I also don't have a moment just to sit and read the Chipotle bag because I'm normally like, you know, running around and not just pour myself a latte in the morning. But maybe >> I totally agree. And I think that so well I think we've got to the point where we've seen enough Chipotle bags where we don't actually, you know, uh, realize it visually. I'm actually gonna I'm gonna make a I'm gonna make a uh a connection to some B2B marketing here. I think that when I see ads on LinkedIn, the number one mistake that every single ad on LinkedIn has is that they don't just say in huge text exactly the thing that it is. It's like they hide fonts, they have low lower thirds, they have like the the image of like the guy in the suit. It's just like all this crazy stuff that you don't need at all for a LinkedIn ad. Like you need clarity in the moment of scroll is the most important thing in a LinkedIn ad. And there's just like all sorts of other stuff. Um we've AB tested this on like our ads of like having super crystal clear uh large white font, black background or dark background and it works like way better. um clarity of message, trying to say two things at once, like etc., etc., etc. And like these these Chipotle bags are the exact that it's like they listed all 53 ingredients on the bag, >> but like >> too much information. Don't understand. >> Yeah. Does not compute, >> right? Does not compute. >> Um >> Yeah. Whereas like if they had put microwaves not welcome on the back of the bag and then subtext that's like you know you know made made fresh daily or or whatever it is like real ingredients. Um here they are and then you put them in super small font. Um maybe that maybe that uh maybe that stands out a little better. But uh it's cool visually. It looks really cool. >> It is cool visually. It is cool. When I'm looking at a bag right now, that's not the ingredients, but more their dedication or their value of the earth, like saving energy and all that stuff, which is a different a different bag, but there's something to be said for it. It's cute and it's slightly engaging. Gives Gives the design team something fun to do. >> Yeah. Well, but they have a red font. >> Yeah. >> So, like if you're going to spend the money, heavens knows that red font is probably expensive. Um, if if you're gonna put the red on there, put it in bold letters and put the the message. >> Yeah. >> In bold so that you get it. Because the thing about taglines is like putting for real on there, which I'm glad it is on there even though it's not on the website. Uh, I wonder if it's on the app. Do they have an app? I usually >> they do. My husband has it. I don't have the app. I defer to him. >> I just order from Door Dash, I think. Um, anyways, uh, if you're going to have the real estate, you got to use the real estate and you got to use it to clarity message. And I think that the for real thing is good, but again, it's not, that's, you know, tagline, right? It's like you want everybody to know that, but the pathiness needs to happen with that microwave not welcome thing. Um, >> yeah. >> Or whatever it is. And, uh, and the way that they they do these these bags, which again are really cool. Um, it's it's just illeible if I'm just being fully honest. >> No, it is. But I also wonder if like that's not the point. The point is if you're actually going to look at it, you're going to actually digest it, you will remember it. You know what I mean? Almost. I like feel like some sometimes that's like I don't know. I feel like there is something to be said for that. But I do see what you're saying about the for real piece. like that should be the kind of funky cursive is not real cursive whatever that is like half cursive >> I just like I'm looking at one of the bags right now this is great this is great content that thanks Alisa for going down the rabbit hole with me because I think with every great campaign you have to you have to go back and you have to look at it every year and and you reassess yeah I think I just disagree on the bags I think that like I understand what they're trying to do but I don't think they're doing it well it's like it's just not good enough. Like it's not legible enough. It's a cool art project, but like at the end of the day, you got to at least like I'm looking one that says, "Congratulations, Pinto. You made it." Which is funny. >> I That's the thing. Like, so if you actually spent the time, I'm like, "Oh, this is actually kind of funny." >> Yeah, but you've been to Chipotle a million times and you've never read the bag and I had one in my house and I didn't even know it was on there and I didn't know that for real was the slogan that was on the bag. So, like, how good of a job are they doing it, you know? >> That's true. And it's like and this is the like this is your real estate. This is your brand, right? Like use that real estate. Whereas I guarantee you if they put microwaves like never welcome in giant red font on the back of every single bag, I guarantee you both you and I would have known that they said that. >> Noticed it. Yeah. because it's and the reason why is because when they started this back in 2017, this for real campaign, like you said, there weren't as many brands listing their ingredients, doing that type of stuff. That wasn't as popular. Now that's like much more popular, right? >> So now, so like now it's like to read a bunch of ingredients on there, right? >> Right. Yeah. You can kind of update the message in a different way. You can update the campaign in a way so you don't have to do that same like thing. And you also can do anything with the back of the bag, right? You could do Sudoku puzzle. You could do like there's infinite possibilities. So I think that where you have to get sort of like very I think you know analytical on this stuff is like is it doing the thing that we want? And for two busy parents who have probably bought more Chipotle than you know many other people um you know I I like even now just seeing all this I'm like it does make me want to get Chipotle slightly more often than I do because the ingredients are fresh and I don't think I I think I knew that but I didn't like I don't think of it >> consciously >> conscious of that. >> Right. >> Yeah. Um >> well, you know, speaking of busy parenting and what I do use and you mentioned Sudugo, do you ever go to Rome burger with your kids? >> Mhm. >> Well, Rome with my kids. I will go. They have It's all fresh. They have these actually really good gluten-free chicken tenders that I love on my salad. But they have the little like explorer pack where we make the little there's a um there's like a maze and a little worm drawing thing that you know you draw the numbers to each other. There's a cross word puzzle. I do it every time I go to Rome and it's all it's about their their theme is similar. Fresh ingredients, compost, you know, healthy. These are the words you're finding in the crossword puzzle type thing. But to your point, I'm engaged. I'm reminded of him them and their values by playing these games with my kids because they're also teaching us how to compost and why do you have a worm and they have these cute little funny things. But anyway, to your point, could you use this real estate in a way to like imprint on my brain more of their values in a more not contemporary but in a different way because this worked 10 years ago but maybe we need to refresh it is what you're saying kind of. >> That's right. I found a a bag on the Chipotle Reddit, which is honestly a great source for all of your Chipotle wants and needs. Uh that one of the bags has literally has Lauram Ipsum on it. >> Marketing fail. >> Whoopsie. Someone forgot. >> Yeah, that's funny. Um yeah, anyways, I I I also just like in we're down the rabbit hole, so we may as well keep going. >> No. Yeah. The uh the other thing about it is now that I see how many of these bags are photographed and put on the internet, there's an even bigger opportunity with social sharing and social media to get a little picy with with what you're putting on there. And >> yes, >> and like actually say stuff that people would want to share. Um, and when you talk about yourself, you know, it's kind of hard to get people to share it, right? Um, like, okay, it's it's not just a bowl. It's a foil wrapped, handcrafted, responsibly grown and raised good for the planet, good for you deliciousness. To me, that just says absolutely nothing. Like like I get what they're trying to do, but you're trying to say every like you can't say everything. Like you can't be everything, >> right? Like so >> I wonder though if this is them like personifying themselves as like your buddy, your friend, your Chipotle cuz like the way that the lang the voice and tone, you know, the tone is just so like that's how you talk to your buddy and this is who I am. So, I feel like it's almost like a personification of their brand and like you want like that's how I would I see that versus versus communicating the for real message. You see it? Well, that's kind of there too, but it's more like the personification of the brand through the bag and the copy and I like that. I Yeah. No, I love that. I love the brand the copy and I love the the sort of like persona and the stuff. I think it's just confusion equals no sale. And like they're they I think that more of a single message. >> Yeah. >> Hype like they when you're trying to say all everything at once, it's it is not memorable. But if you were to say one thing, it becomes memorable. It's like, hey, we're great for the planet. Everyone can say that. It means nothing, right? where it's like we save 478 uh you know thousand gallons of water a year and then in subtext like because of the way that we do XYZ like oh and probably I should even shorten that it's like we save 7 million gallons of water a year or I'm just making stuff up. >> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. then it's like oh that's that's you know clear this says well this says >> right >> you know whatever but so and again that's still talking about yourself right so there could be other things to do here uh but I think that if you're trying to speak toward this fresh ingredients good for the planet good for you good for your body all of these different types of messagings and you have the space and you you know you have this sort of like uh sort of like ongoing sort of you know uh almost like tattooesque typography and all this sort of stuff. Just Yeah. Just just use the red bold in the center where it says no preservatives. That's all I'm saying. >> Yeah. >> Or whatever. >> Yeah. Well, especially to your point when you apply it back to the B2B stuff like a million%. We just do so much in B2B and it just can be extremely overwhelming and confusion does not equal a sale. I like that. I got to take that back to the team. That's good. >> Yeah. Oh yeah. Every It's just Well, and and like they they're just breaking a lot of rules of copy as I go through this. It's like, hey, our restaurants have no freezers. This is no freezers, can openers, comma, or shortcuts, no artificial flavors, no colors or preservatives. Four different line like you don't write anything in four lines. What? We We know that. Like, >> yeah, >> no four lines, no commas, no whatever. It's like three things. That's all you get. No freezers, no can openers, uh no preservatives. Bam. That's it. That's all you get. That's We know that. Like don't break the rules. um you know our and it says our difference is real with an arrow there and it's like that's cool and that's fine but like that's not the that's not H1 copy that gets you to read the next line. >> That's no >> H2 copy that >> that supports the H1 copy, right? Whereas if the H1 copy said the copy that we all love, which is >> uh we hate microwaves. Like that's funny. Like we hate Oh, why do you hate mic microwaves? Oh, because microwave food tastes like crap. Oh, well that's interesting. That's a that's a place where you can, you know, be interesting. Um >> Yeah. >> Uh whereas like our difference is real as an H1 means nothing to anyone and you don't read the next line, which is literally why I've never read any of the next lines on any of their bags. >> Yeah. >> But we but we love Chipotle and it is still a great >> 10 out of 10. A few notes. Nine out of 10. >> Just got to work on the bags and we're good. >> Yeah. And shout out to you. Good music choices though. >> I was just going to say >> yeah. I guess final takeaway. I love the the the nope versus Yep. You know, we we I think the first episode we did on the show was uh did we do Shamwow or did we do >> Slap Chop? >> Slap Chop. We did Slap Chop. And we we always talk about the infomercials get it so good because they have the black and white frustrating video and then they have the like new video. So >> it's true though, but this is like if applying it back to B2B, like we are on the mission to not to really transform the way we are, like the way we communicate. And this is why I'm like constantly looking at this stuff because I'm like, we got to be more relevant people. Like we got to be more relevant with the way we communicate, more human. And that's what I take away from this campaign a lot is just like simplicity, human, pop cultural relevance. And if we could just do a bit more of that on LinkedIn, it'd be so much more fun to read LinkedIn and just like scroll, probably become Instagram at that point. But hey, be a more enjoyable place to be than it currently is where it's not as fun. >> Yeah. My biggest takeaway is just like you just you get to tell people one thing at a time. >> Yeah. >> Just stop trying to tell people two things >> or three things or whatever. You get to tell people one thing and that's it. You get one message and that's it at a time and just like everything else fades away. So hit your one message, say it in an interesting way, you know, back it up and give them, you know, a call to action so that they can take that information and go tell somebody else. >> Yeah. Yeah. I like that. I know. So true. I'm always battling how do we keep it simple and have one thing to say, maybe two, but one to your point is where we want to be. >> Yeah. >> Alisia, wonderful having you on the show. Any any any uh any final thoughts or anything to to plug here? >> Um no, I don't No, I think it's fine. I mean, I I hope that people don't mind that we just talked about Chipotle bags for about 25 minutes, but um it's cool. 25 I think. >> I don't know. I'm just teasing. >> 45. >> Whatever. Are you guys going to show the uh you're going to show the ad maybe? Right. Little bit of fun. Yeah. So, there we go. >> Now we're showing it all. Yeah. The the social clip of this will be great. Uh because we'll be able to show it all. >> No, it's great. I don't have anything to add other than I think we talked about all the the reasons why I like it and how I'm trying to apply it to my day-to-day, but sometimes it's hard. But, you know, you do your best, right? >> Yeah, that's exactly right. And also that it's just hilarious that the the Chipotle CMO, if you're out there listening, uh Stephanie, we love you, that they just put out this this choices ad and it's and it's so good. Um >> it's so good. Amazing. Thanks, Felicia. >> All right. Thank you, guys.
