# What 20 Years Building Wistia Taught Us

Channel: Talking Too Loud (Wistia)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z_f9UoXWscM
Upload date: 2026-06-30

---

Chris Savage [music] and Brendan Schwarz, best buds and co-founders. Are you ready to press the old rewind button? >> I do. [laughter] >> Wow. >> Do we Do we hug you? How do we hear? >> This is going to have to all be bleeped, I think. [laughter] [music] [laughter] >> What the Thank you. >> Very good. >> Wow. >> What the hell's going on? >> We're just too emotional. Neither of us wants to talk right now. That video is >> I felt tears welling at one point. I was like, "Fight it." [laughter] >> Welcome to a very special episode of Talking Too loud. This year, Wistia turns [music] 20, which means the company has survived a lot. Mhm. >> The recession, social media, remote work, growth hacking, pivoting, [laughter] synergy, the metaverse, getting meta about the metaverse, web 3, and now AI. So, it's fair to say you guys have seen some things. >> Seen some things. Seen some things. >> I like you said survive social media. >> I know. That was very funny. >> You had to survive it. >> Yeah. >> It was weird. Mhm. >> It still is. But you guys have learned some things, too. >> And at 20, you've earned the right to be a little bit nostalgic. So today, we're going back to the beginning, back to the early firsts, the big decisions, the people who helped shape the company, and some of the lessons that still hold up decades later. So, Chris Savage and Brendan Schwarz, best buds and co-founders, are you ready to press the old rewind button? I do. >> Yeah. [laughter] >> Let's press that button. >> Okay. So, it's 2006. You guys are fresh out of college. >> Yeah. >> You're living with 10 roommates. They're all going out to their nineto-fives. What was the dream back then? Like, what were you guys trying to do? >> The dream. >> The dream. >> The dream. Um, yeah. I mean, the beginning was basically like, can we get this thing to work quickly? Like, I remember when we were talking about, should we start Wistia? It wasn't called Wistia back then, but should should we start a company online video? >> You're going to say the name of it? >> Yeah. Tropist. >> Oh, the original original name. >> The OG OG name. >> The OG cinematist. >> That's right. >> Cinematropist. That's kind of a mouthful. >> Well, yeah. [laughter] >> That's why we shortened it. >> Yeah. But but when we were talking about starting that, we like did the math like, okay, we can we just need to survive for six months. Six months felt like an eternity. And so we thought if we can do this for six months, like we will either be successful and in our minds that meant probably selling the company. >> Um or >> to Yahoo. >> Yeah. To Yahoo premium brand was very hot. >> Yahoo. Yeah. Not as hot, but Facebook was hot. >> Yahoo. >> Yahoo was still around back then. >> Yes, >> it was hot. >> It was cooling off. Heavy cooling. still still [laughter] a threat. >> And what was cinematus like what was the first idea? Like I never heard that said out loud. >> Yeah, I know. I cannot when you said that I was like what are you talking about? Oh yeah, that >> um I the idea that convinced us to stop everything else like for Brennan to quit his job for me to stop freelancing because we both agreed if we're going to do this we're going to do it 100%. Yeah, like >> we thought that was pretty important was like that we didn't want this to just be like a night and weekend thing and the idea was we would make a film making competition website and so what that meant is that brands would be like hey we wanted an ad for a national ad, a Super Bowl ad, something and they would have filmmakers compete to make ads for that brand. So it would be cheaper for the brand to get the the ad created for the filmmakers. It would be huge opportunity because in uh you know if they had if they had their ad picked that would probably be better than winning like a festival is kind of like was our math on this thing. But we did this I did not this idea did not last for long. >> No it didn't. Well we we learned a lot of lessons pretty quickly. I would say we were both really into product still very into product but we spent the first I don't know month that we were in existence or even before we like officially started making these really detailed product plans we were like okay how is the voting going to work like we can't have like let anyone game or abuse the voting system we had this like huge PDF of all the stuff we were going to build obviously you can already tell based on your face none of this matters right like there's some matters it felt like that was probably the difference >> and it was fun for I think it was indulgent basically and then over time reality set in as our bank accounts dwindled and then you're like wait a second we're going to have to make something that actually works. Uh >> but it was fun. >> Yeah. I mean it sounds like just the the building of something was energizing. >> That was instantly fun. >> Yeah. >> And I remember our roommates saying like what do you guys do? >> What do you do all day? >> Like how do you know what you do? like we don't know like like basically >> have you looked at what we're doing you can tell that we don't quite know >> but part that's part of the funny thing is you wake up you're like what should I do today what's the most important thing I can do and so sometimes that was like using other products or reading the news about things that were happening related to what we're doing sometimes that was designing stuff sometimes eventually we it took us like it actually in retrospect it was kind of fast >> it was fast we I I remember also though we we had all these like funny ideas that I I think in retrosp respect. They did help us a lot be we had all these crazy plans for Cinematropus and we're like well this is a big build before we get into this we need to warm up with some like mini projects basically to like how we're going to work together and all this stuff and I we had some early successes >> mostly doing stunty stuff basically >> but stuff that we found interesting >> the first thing we built I think was uh called famethrower >> flamethrower >> yeah like a flamethrower I got I got that There you got that. That was uh inspired by the million-dollar homepage which was I >> think he was in England maybe he it was one page called the million dollar homepage.com and he had a million pixels. It's like this giant image and you could buy a pixel for a dollar and then have it link to something or you could buy, you know, a 10 x10 that's going to cost you a hundred bucks and it's it was basically such an absurd idea and he did well with the PR and the marketing that he did end up selling all the pixels and he made a million dollars and we're like this is cool. So, >> and I remember thinking like why not us like why can't we do this? And Famethrower was like, "All right, we're going to one up the million-dollar homepage, and we're have this website where you can upload an image and you pay, but whoever pays the most, their image will be the most, and it'll automatically resize." So, you might pay once, but then you would have to someone else spends more >> and then you can go back and add more and shrink all the others. So, there's constantly. Does that make sense? >> Oh, yeah. I get that. >> And you would be paying for fame. That's all it would take would be like pay for fame. And eventually you would have a lot of people using a very different product. Um but the idea that became Wistia really started with DVDs of medical surgeries. [laughter] Please please explain. >> That's a I like that framing. >> Yeah. So this whole time we're trying all this stuff. Video is at the heart of Tropist video. We're like going to meetups talking to people about video. Um and one of our friends who happens to also live in the house works at a medical device company. And he's like, "Hey guys, like we send DVDs of surgeries around the world and this is how we try to figure out how to improve our medical device and improve our surgeries. Like I think you might be able to help us like a lot with the video stuff that you're doing." Cuz he saw, you know, we would use the people and how we're like, "Could you test our stuff? Could you try this? We're like always, you know." So he had seen Tropist, which is a portfolio website for filmmakers. It had all this video stuff. >> Yeah. you could upload a video and it would work >> and it would encode and it would play back well and all those things and that was actually rare for that moment. Um, and in our long list of like features that we wanted to build, we thought we would make eventually features for filmmakers to share in progress work and that would be part of Tropus and Ezra saw this and was like, "Hey guys, like we need that thing, but we don't need the film making stuff." >> And I think >> our response was, "No, man. We're for artists." >> Exactly. [laughter] That's right. >> We're not going to sell out. We're not selling out to businesses. >> Yeah, that was until we really started running out of money and then we're like, we got to talk about [laughter] >> I think I think we need someone else to to weigh in on this particular chapter of your lives. So, I'm gonna welcome in a very special guest. >> Oh, roommate >> Ezra Fishman. >> Wow. >> Do we Do we hug you? How do we hear? Hello. >> There he is. >> God. >> Hey, buddy. >> What a reunion. >> We're desperate for money. That was what happened. >> Do you want to come here? >> I don't know how all this [laughter] stuff works. >> Lenny goes with you. >> Lenny. >> Lenny's fine back there until you come in here. Did you make these grilled cheeses or you were given them? >> Uh, no. I made them for you cuz it's your favorite midnight snack. >> Perfect. >> Um, I I eat cheddar CHEESE NOW. >> CONGRATULATIONS. WE'RE ALL OVERCOMING DAIRY. That's what we do on this podcast at WIA. >> Although I feel like when we were living together then you would occasionally eat I knew you were lactose intolerant but occasionally you eat a pizza and you're like well I'll just suffer through it. [laughter] >> Uh but yeah, so you were just desperate for money which is the reason that I I was I was there listening the [laughter] whole time. >> Well, we're desperate to survive. >> Yeah, [snorts] >> desperate to survive. >> Interesting. I didn't I didn't realize that. Yeah. No one No one actually thought that they were really starting a business. They they like went away for the summer to go brainstorm and ideate [laughter] >> brainstorm in quotation marks for those >> and come up with some brilliant ideas. Um and yeah, no, we were sure that they were not doing anything but hanging out at the beach. Um and then yeah, and then they came back with a bunch of terrible ideas. Um and then and then and then one brilliant idea >> that you came up with. >> That I came up with. [laughter] Yeah, that was that was that was what made it so brilliant. [laughter] >> It was we were we were literally mailing DVDs across the world. It wasn't it wasn't even in the country. It was across the world. And this was this was the process. It was like, "Oh, we got to >> got to get someone to review this surgery. You better go send it to South America. >> Rely on the old post." Were you the one who was literally mailing them or there were you had >> I think I think I did I did mail I did mail several of these um and then we were sitting at home talking and Brendan I think so I think there's probably a better way to do this. We're working on online video. I bet we could I bet we could do this for you. Um and that was that was the beginning. >> Does Yeah. You eventually convinced us to come in and meet uh the team. Who was there? Ron. Yeah, Ron, Ste, Dave, Andy. Yeah, you guys had no idea how to price. >> That's right. >> This thing. I don't actually know what you first >> I just remember. Well, I remember because we printed it out. We had nothing built to be clear and we're like, we're going to come and exploratory conversation, but we had a print out of prices because we thought that like maybe they would want us to consult and we're like, oh, they're going to pay us to build this thing, but we shouldn't do that. we should like if we're gonna do something for them because Ezra told us about this like okay if we can make this private thing work it should be like they're a customer and so it was it was like the prices were light was $100 a month medium was $200 a month and heavy was $400 a month and it was just made up it was just completely whatever and I'll never forget we have the whole meeting and the meeting goes well and I think Ron was like so how much this cost what how do you guys what do you guys do and I was like slid the paper I was like this is what we're thinking for pricing >> I feel like it was The paper's upside down as well. >> Yeah. Yeah, [laughter] that's right. >> That probably isn't true, but in my memory is >> Well, and then Ron looks at goes, "Yeah, we'll take the top thing. Sure. Sounds good." It was like, it was like such a small amount for like what they were dealing with. It was like, "Of course." >> And me while we're talking to filmmakers and being like, "So, would you pay like $3, maybe $5 a month if you could have unlimited private video sharing?" And they're like, "No, that's [laughter] that's way too much." >> Yeah. No, I was like, "Oh, $500 a month. Okay, whatever. Just when can it start? Do we have access to it now or how does it work? >> That was so funny. And then I remember we built because we had to pull out the video part of Tropus to make it its own thing and it was probably like two or three weeks and that part was stressful. I remember was like did we actually solve this cuz we guessed at like how the permissions would work and all and they're like yeah it's good we'll just use this. We're like >> okay. >> That was when I think like the first like major confidence spike hit. >> Yeah. It was also very addicting too because in this other mode with Tropus we were like having to email and beg people to use the software and then then yeah Ezra would come home and be like oh there's a bug with this it needs to be fixed like people can't use it and I feel like that was a very we're like oh we built something that >> people need is working. >> Yeah. And like having a problem is a good thing because it means they're using it. >> Yeah. And was I was using it on the dayto-day sitting there watching videos of surgeries and being like oh man this is this does not look good. [laughter] Uh, so yeah, >> this does not look good. >> This looks bad. >> And I'm sure all the like HIPPA compliance and all that was in order at that time. Of >> course. Yeah, that's startups always. >> Certainly was. Certainly [laughter] was on our side. There was never anything on the the medical device side. >> Is there anything that these guys conveniently leave out when they're telling this story? >> Oh boy. [laughter] >> Um, yeah. The biggest thing is I I don't think I don't think the rest of us thought there was real something gonna come out of this. The rest of us the rest of us were very skeptical. >> Yeah. >> Um in the house and >> you know if you had said uh 20 years later it's going to still be a business that's going strong. Uh you would you would not have taken many betters on that side of the bet. >> It's pretty incredible. We have to Oh, go for >> Well, I don't think we could have believed that either. Yeah. Like I mean I think you know you like feain the confidence and you're searching for this thing and you want and like you're you because you feel like you need to fake it till you make it is like definitely what we thought was happening but like deep inside like did we think it was going to be a thing that would go for 20 years and longer. No. Well, it's also funny because it reminds me of so right after that deal um and Ezra's using the product and we're like on this high we got a connection to PBS and from like the film making stuff I did and we're like hey you guys can use this to like share stuff in internally whatever and like I don't even know how this happened so quickly but it happened we got there and you better believe I print out that pricing but because there was no push back the first time we increased the prices like 10x >> yeah it was so >> and then I like put the paper down and This is how little we knew about business. We're like, PBS is like a huge forprofit enterprise, all the money in the world. >> We slid that paper over and they're like, "Oh, no. Hell no. We can't do this." And we're like, "Oh, no. That's just like special. That's like a special thing." Like, >> we have a different thing. And they're like, "No, I mean there's it's utterly clear we're not the right customer for this. Like, we cannot use this. No way." Right after they had just looked at it, they just I was like, "Oh, no. This is so bad." And so, it was like devast was like devastating. was like, "Okay, maybe you don't just get to just always make up the prices and like see where it goes." So, >> it's a good moment. It's a good learning moment. I feel like we have to take a bite of this grilled cheese, each of us, and and toast to this. >> Is it cheddar? Is it safe, Ezra? >> Is it safe? >> Probably. [laughter] Okay. Only one way to find out. >> Let's do it. >> Let's toast to this era. >> Chris, >> we're like tapping these. >> You must cheers to 2006. So, we got some of the real tea from Ezra. When did you guys realize that this video sharing problem was like more than just a single customer problem? I think we even I in my memory even before we went in to talk to uh the company Ezra was working at because of Chris's background in film and talking to the filmmakers, we're like, "Oh, there's this, you know, review and approval process." We we're we were good at definitely imagining success for ourselves, I'd say. So, we're like >> still pretty good at that. >> Oh, this was [laughter] oh, like there's there's like lots of reasons we could get into this like private video video sharing thing. it was unsubstantiated and I think that's when we saw that company take to it and then we had some we did have some early successes with other video production companies we were like oh uh here it goes and probably the like the earliest one where we were like really felt like we were on to something was um one of the people who ended up joining Wistia as our first sales per official salesperson he sold a deal to Nestle Nutrition before he had even started to do sales compliance training And we didn't even know >> what sales compliance training was. And we're like, >> "Oh, look at this." Like this market is >> endless. Yeah. And like and he didn't work at Wistia and was able to do it. >> And it was like they paid up front for the whole year. And I think it was like it was like 10,000 a year. So it was like a bigger all of these. >> That was a huge amount of money. >> When that happened, I remember thinking, "Oh [ __ ] like >> this might actually >> be >> be big." Like it was this this idea was like starting to brew in our minds that was like the there's so many different companies and different industries. Like that was what was very surprising because I think at first it was hard to imagine >> that statement. There's so many different companies and >> there were so many different count companies and industries that could use Wistia in this form that that was a big surprise. And before that, it wasn't that hard to imagine that filmmakers might want to use it for reviews and approvals, but we knew that the price might not be a fit. And so it was like a surprise when you have Nestle and then there was a training company that used us >> and then really early was like Cir to Sole became a customer. >> Yes. >> And they clicked on an Google ad and that month I remember spending like 50 bucks on ads which was a lot to us. And one of the people who clicked and signed up and got on the phone was like start to sole. And that was like this exciting moment and also like kind of terrifying because we definitely knew that we didn't know what we were doing. >> The stakes suddenly get a bit higher. >> Yes. >> Just as this is happening. Uh you have sort of the beginnings of a product. You have some some real traction with some real customers. Then >> there's a snake in my boot. There's a snake in my boot. >> Who's that? Tom Hanks enters the chat. [laughter] >> That wasn't clear at all, was it? >> No. I was like, Toy Story 5 just came out. We're trying to do Do we have a cross promo deal for this episode? >> You know it. [laughter] >> Why was HBO calling? >> We started talking to HBO because they had what they described to us as the Tom Hanks problem, which was Tom Hanks is a producer on a bunch of shows that are shot in LA. and the dailies like the stuff that they shoot raw daily daily daily that is not yet edited were sent to him but um he spent a lot of time in Ireland and so the way they would do that is they would print a DVD it would go to a courier the courier would go to the airport someone would hold that DVD they would fly to Ireland and then someone in Ireland would bring it to Tom Hanks to his mail cast we're told he lives in a castle there >> yes >> Tom Hanks is living in a castle >> that's what we're told I don't know that that's >> we've never been I've never been there >> castle in quotes >> yeah castle his castle. That's what he refers to his homes as his castle. >> But this was another one of those situations where like we got introduced to HBO through somebody who saw we're doing like really excited about it >> and we set them up with an account. They're like account like number five or six in the system and you kind of cannot believe this is happening. HBO is actually we give them the account they actually use it and they're uploading dailies of the Sopranos and stuff no one's ever seen. that I feel like that was really surreal because we were talking to the we had these surgeries, we had sales compliance training, we're like whatever this is, you know, the B and then that we were like oh this is we're like both obsessed with that stuff and it was >> yeah that felt really weird to be in like our office which is my bedroom on the top of this house and we're like clicking through and like watching these behind the scenes sopranos uh things that they are uploading. We're like it's that was very mind-blowing like it's like almost like we can't believe this is happening. >> Yeah. >> And you guys eventually went out to LA. >> Yeah. Basically pitch them. So there's like a intermediary that's like helping the deal happen. So we didn't we didn't have the direct connection to HBO and it was even hard to believe what the intermediary was saying because it was like a talent agent who was oh I know this guy and that GUY AND EVERYONE'S GOING TO LOVE THIS. THEY'RE GOING TO LOVE THIS STUFF. >> Hollywood talent agent. Hollywood talent. They're going to love we're going to love this stuff. You guys are they're going to love it. We're like, "Okay, all right." Um, and then when they started uploading the footage, we're like, "Oh, this is actually them." And then the talent agent told us like, "Hey, there's going to be a meeting tomorrow or two days to discuss with the head of production at HBO whether or not they are going to use Wistia." And they told us, "We're just going to handle this." And >> we'll do the demo. >> Yeah. >> You boys uh, you know, stay put in the old Cambridge office. Um [laughter] and but we had enough foresight to realize like we had we had to be there. We had no >> written relationship with the talent. Nothing like and the numbers that were being thrown around were very large. It was like uh the total deal size that the talent agent like helped us come up with was like 3/4 of a million a year for them to use this. Like this wasn't just like whist like this would be life-changing if this happens. So having a meeting without us we like couldn't we couldn't accept that. So we flew ourselves out there. >> Well, we also just to back up slightly. We only had >> I mean this is the fall of of the year that we started. We had >> barely any it was like we were running on our savings and we were down to I don't like a few thousand dollars and tickets to LA >> kind of expensive. So we're looking at the bank account and looking at these ticket prices and uh and Chris called like we didn't know where it was going to be. And so Chris called the talent agents assistant uh whose name we can still remember. We'll say his name. Josh. >> Josh. Good old Josh. >> Uh >> Josh. >> Chris is like I hear him on the other side. He's like uh hey Josh. Like we didn't just like we didn't get the where's like the hotel everybody's saying. I just like that didn't come through. The email hasn't come through yet or something like that. And he's like oh it's like whatever in Manhattan Beach. It's like this like super fancy boutique hotel. Fancier than any hotel we've ever stayed at and more expensive than any hotel we've ever stayed at. >> Important. Um, and we're like, "All right, we'll book these tickets." But we shared a room, of course, uh, at this hotel because >> gotta save where you can. >> Couldn't afford to. >> Didn't tell them we were coming >> because we thought they would like somehow try to like get us out of this and then showed up >> and were wearing [laughter] uh we're wearing suits, like really ill-fitting suits that you could imagine >> a 23-year-old might have from >> like a wedding they went to or graduation or something like this. Um, and they were like very shocked that we were there. Very shocked that we were there. And also that we were dressed like this because this is LA and we don't know. >> Oh, they're all in like hip like t-shirts and stuff. And then like we're just like two kids in suits. >> Huge huge suits. >> And they're laughing about like is that from your graduation? Is that what it was from? What are you guys doing? Like this? [laughter] >> But once they were there, once we were there, they're like, "Oh, okay. I guess you're coming to the meeting." >> They accepted us. >> They accepted us. >> Yes. They accepted us >> and they realized they did need our help to demo the software that we had created. So, I'm not sure how they were going to do >> Well, that was the funny thing that Yeah, that that wasn't really thought through, but >> But you saved the day. You saved your own day. >> Well, we saved our own day in that we got to go and we were part of the meeting, which was in and of itself like a crazy experience where we're in the lobby of HBO and like waiting for the meeting and there's like celebrities that we recognize. I would lose my mind. >> Donald Lo. [laughter] That's the only one I remember. You know, do you know >> who is that? >> Uh, that's him. Tala Steve. >> Let me see. >> What was he in? What was he in? >> Oh, I know that guy. >> Know that guy. >> Oh, he's in he's in >> He was right there. >> He's in Runaway Bride. >> Okay, great. >> Not on our video wall. Too bad. Not up there. So, you know him. We get into the meeting and there's there's these guys whose names we recognize because they had accounts in Wistia and everyone's waiting for stuff to start and one of them goes to us like have you guys seen this Wistia thing and we're like um we made that WA thing. Oh, this Wistia thing is so great. Like we you made this like you're the people who made this. Like yeah. He's like, "Oh yeah, you can like comment on the you can add like a timecoded comment. You can organize it like by like these different projects and stuff." And it was like also like mindblowing that this was the guy on the other side of the internet who had been like uploading his footage in and testing it and and he really thought it was good. I mean that was what was cool. >> And at some point they offer you a deal. >> Yeah. Basically. I mean, so the head of production of HBO comes in to the room and >> the fog is like behind him. He's like made an epic entrance. >> Yeah, he's rippling. He's got like he's got like the coolest leather jacket you've ever seen. We're all sitting at a conference room table >> wearing sunglasses, of course. >> This is actually true. >> Very dark room. >> Everything that's being said is true. Like we are sitting at a conference room table. You have to imagine us in suits and all these other these other people are there and this guy comes in, slides across the bar, the side of the room, like sits up above us and he's like, "What's the deal with this thing? What do we do?" Blah blah blah. And yeah, they're like, "We like it. We like it. We want we want it." Um, which also was completely just unbelievable feeling. We left, had a celebratory dinner with the talent agent. Did you do some Mediterranean food? Yeah. And you would think that this story would end with us winning the HBO deal, but actually ultimately HBO really wanted it to be on premise. Like they wanted Wiston servers in like a closet in their buildings, which totally understand, but we we were unable to. We thought we'd be pretty much unable to do that from Cambridge. Like we thought if we to do that, we'd probably have to move to LA. We'd probably be building custom stuff for HBO. And it just seemed like even though it was like a lot of money, we'd gotten all these other customers signing up, coming in, you know, one by one, and it wasn't going to have to be kind of like an enterprise relationship. It was going to be much more SMB, and that seemed like a better fit. Yeah, I feel like that was some of the early um maybe misplaced confidence or dreaming big that we were like this this whole market if we did HBO and we got all the other major studios maybe we could make uh $5 million or something. But when we looked at the rest like the full set of the opportunity to be clear we were making about $1,000 a month at this point. Yeah. >> We're like well we can't really do that. We we couldn't make that work or that would be really limiting to like what we thought the future of Wistia was, which feels very funny to say from when you're 23-year-old. >> Yeah. So, we walked away. Yeah. I love it. >> And you're back here in Cambridge and you are starting to get more customers. What did that period feel like? >> I mean, you know, so this is also around right around when the great financial crisis happens in 2008. Um, and we closed our first angel round and we like brought on two more people um, who we could now afford to pay and we just started doing it like with more and we got our first um, office that was not the house and uh, I would I would say it was like the truth is it was really hard like we went a whole summer closed the angel round in May. We'd shown we just shown these angel investors that we had just walked away from HBO. That's how confident we were. We had just closed like that Nestle deal up front, a bunch of other deals. We're like, "Look, it's like look at the trend. This is going to be so easy." And then we didn't close a deal the entire summer. And um it was just I mean we that was like the beginning of like the a different type of grinding. >> I feel like we made a lot of um mistakes that like we had just started to do a lot of things right leading up to that where I I said what felt right was we were more connected to C. We were doing things in a scrappy way, more connected to customers. We were I think maybe a little more in touch with our instincts to of like what kind of felt right. And then when we got that office and we started pay we we paid ourselves for the first time from the business which was like a really meaningful thing. But we got in this mode where we were almost like playing office. Yeah. >> We were doing really stupid things that seemed like what we should we were doing what we thought we >> should be like someone in our situation should be doing. It was all wrong. We kind of stopped subtly just coming at every problem from first principles. People were like, "No, there's a way to do this." And we're like, "Oh, we should now that we're now that we've raised money, we're like a real company. We should do it this way." Like we had board meetings. We didn't have a board back then. There was no official board. Uh but like we had two investors come in and we do these board meetings. It'd be us and the two investors and there'd be the two other guys in the team like not in the room like you could look through the conference window like in the like working. I remember sitting in there being like, "What are we doing?" Like, "This is weird." Like, >> and we would wait for that meeting to make decisions. >> Yeah. >> Even though that that was a really silly thing to do that we we did eventually like catch ourselves with that. >> Yeah. And I think it was like the thing that was working before was we actually felt full responsibility for all our decisions. We were building our own confidence. We were starting to understand the customer. We were doing also at that time things that I think were pretty counterintuitive. Like even cloud was so brand new like at this time and subscription software didn't really exist like SAS was not really it was nothing close to what it is today. It was like if go back and look it's in its infancy but we felt that we understood it we should do it and then suddenly these fake board meetings we were like not treating it like that. >> We were talking to people who had been a part of a lot of companies and they were telling us all the stuff we were missing and needed to do and all this professionalization stuff that really had nothing to do with the customer, nothing to do with what we were building. So that's when I think like when we were paying ourselves too much was one thing. So our burn was really high. And after that summer we're like this is so stupid. Like we've been surviving on nothing, why don't we just like continue to pay ourselves but pay ourselves way less and that will give the business way more runway. And so we made that decision. Um and we said we're not going to do these fake board meetings anymore. The people who have to figure this business out are the four of us. So the two guys we've hired, Adam and Ben, and the two of them. we're just going to figure this out ourselves and it's going to be all about like the basics like making the product better, figuring out how to like get the story out there, figure out what the pricing should be and we're just going to do it our way. And ultimately those all felt like hard decisions to make that that added up and you know it took time but another year and a half later I would say we started to have the machine working. Yeah, I feel like there were have been a few moments like that where it's this like you have some um clarity of vision and it it was maybe hard to make that decision, but then once we were in that world where everything felt more in our control even though we still didn't know how to do a lot of stuff but we're like you said the full weight of the responsibility like the responsibility is ours to do it was empowering. >> Yeah. And I feel like there that was uh like a a helpful feeling that >> I think it's a really good way to put it is like when you felt when we felt full responsibility for it, it was actually a lot of decisions were kind of easy to make. >> Yeah. >> And I think for this brief moment, we had kind of been like, oh, we give some of this responsibility to the investors and that is not what you should do. But we didn't understand that. And I think fortunately we didn't screw anything up too bad at that point. >> Yeah. And it seems like you kind of ride that like wave of empowerment into the 2010s. You are getting more customers. You're hiring more employees. Um why do you think people were choosing Wistia? Like was it >> the customers? >> Yeah. >> I think we had I remember so many we had so many competitors back then that had raised so much money and they were all getting these big enterprise deals and what that meant it was kind of like the HBO deal. what we thought would happen to us there. Like what that meant is they yeah, you could get you could go with one of our competitors and they'd build you all this custom stuff, but the product itself sucked. Like no one wanted to use it. They had to use it. Like the the employees of those businesses that signed up for those things were forced to use like a bad interface. And our approach was just like, no, we're going to make a product that's so good that the person and the price will be something that the person who's using it could say, hey, I think I could pay for this or I think my company will pay for this. And so a lot of the people we were getting were people who were like they wanted a really they they thought that whisty being simple was an advantage not a lack of features. Um and there weren't many companies do like on the low end no doing this that were affordable. And all those those companies that you're mentioning they had raised a lot of money and the market was not there. So I think one thing that was benefiting us was we were very small we raised a little bit of money. we were basically bootstrapped and so we could survive for a long period of time whereas these companies had to get some return and they just ended up all going out of business because the it was too early in the video cycle and I feel like that was an interesting lesson to learn. We were like joking at the time of the financial crisis that we were too small to fail and that was like that honestly was really helpful. That's when when things really connected. It was probably right around the time you're talking about it was like five years in suddenly we had the right product and there were more customers who businesses that wanted to use video and we had the right price pricing and you could sign up yourself and like I remember the day we turned that on up until that point you had to do a trial. We had to sell it and close the deal for you. So like the first time we had a credit card from somebody that we took we wrote it down on like a legal pad and like entered it into the system. That was and so when it switched like you could put your stuff in yourself. It was like woke up in the morning there was like a few new customers. That was like a remarkable >> that was that was that was a very memorable feeling. >> That was a very memorable feeling. And and we just started to see it work. And as it started to see it work like it wasn't overnight but it was like hey if this just continues we're going to be in good shape. But the shocking thing is this is like five years in. >> Mhm. And we, you know, as we're talking about with Ezra, like we thought this was going to be like six months. We thought this was gonna be a short stint and that we thought that's how the world worked and instead it was this five-year thing and we're like why are we still doing this? We kept asking ourselves this. I think it was also something about being longer than college. >> Like college feels like such a big moment in your life >> and people talk about their college experience like you know deep into their deep into their lives. >> Still doing it. >> Yeah. But it's and it's but it's four years and we've done this for five and like that was a very shocking thing >> like marked time differently. >> Yeah. And I think that that also was like uh oh how we do the work matters like the culture matters. >> Yeah. And it has to be actually fun. And that I think was also it was right around then that that that was starting to show up in the brand. And it started to show up in the brand less as a strategy of like, hey, let's have a a strong brand and more as like a screw it. Like it would be nice if our parents and friends like thought we were doing was kind of cool. It'd be it would be fun if they saw who was working here, you know? And it was like it was fun to us and that was kind of the reason that it started. And then it just worked better than we thought it would. Well, speaking of fun, speaking of brand, we should probably bring out one of the people who helped build it. Please welcome Wistia's head of production, Chris Lavine. [cheering and applause] >> Oh, there he is. >> I got COFFEE FOR YOU. >> OH, that's who wants a half calf. I think there's a [laughter] half cap. There's a full cap. I know Savage wants that full cap. I sure do. Good to see you. Good to see you. Would you like some? >> Hey, how you doing? >> Happy to be here. >> Yeah. Oh man. >> Welcome. >> Will he just avoid this all human food? >> Lenny. >> Yeah. >> Oh, no. That's getting eaten. [laughter] >> That is definitely getting eaten by >> Go for it, Lenny. >> Yeah. Lenny. Lenny is kind of tracking with my time at Wistia. >> Yeah. >> You guys realize that? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. You got him like around the same time that you started. >> Well, yeah. that 2011 is when he he's 15 years old. >> All right, CRL. >> Yes. >> Time for some hard-hitting questions. >> Okay. >> When you think about this era of Wistia when they're like leaning into fun and wanting wanting to just like show people like what they do all day, what what comes to mind? Like what where are you in this in this era? >> I'll tell you what comes to mind. I'll give you a piece of >> Oh god, he's leaning back. >> This is gonna have to all be bleeped, I think. [laughter] >> Where do you get off? >> No. Um Oh, man. I forgot to uncuff my pants here. Um 2011 when I [laughter] when I came to meet you guys. >> Yeah. >> In 2011, I brought my camera. >> Yeah. >> They were a video hosting company. >> They barely had a video on their website. It was like one video. It >> screencast. >> It was a screencast video. He Savage did try. Oh, I remember vividly being like, "Okay, we can't be on camera [laughter] because because like well because at that time we were like we're selling a businesses and if they figure out how young we are, how small this business is, how crappy our office is, all these things." And I didn't have confidence that I was going to make a thing that would actually tell the story properly. And Chris comes in friends with Jeff who's on the team and he just like without permission just like shoots this thing. >> Well, I'd never seen a startup before. So, I happened to have my camera and I had never seen a startup before and I walked into this office. Everyone was like my age. There was a ping pong table. There was astroturf like it there was a there was a a kegarator I believe there's a kegarator. There was and so it blew it blew my mind. It >> didn't even have iced coffee in it. >> We hadn't hit that area. >> I think that is before iced coffee even >> before cold brew was here for sure. Pretty cold. >> Hot only. >> Yeah. >> Uh [laughter] terrible in the summer. And so I started shooting and I made this video uh be just because I I'd never really experienced a startup before and um then I gave it to you guys as like a thanks for hanging out. >> Yeah. >> And the rest is kind of history because you I think if I remember correctly you put on your website and you started >> put we literally so this is all exactly as it happened. Chris came in shot the video. We're like I remember thinking what's this guy doing? >> Why the hell is like such an idiot? >> [laughter] >> Did you do any like two camera or there was zero? >> Oh, no. We were too afraid and I was shooting wide open too. [laughter] >> F1.4 baby. There was >> So we put it we put it on the team page >> and we made a team page and it said this is the Wistia team and it had the video and we put it onto Reddit. All these people started being like whoa. The kind I feel like having the reaction of Chris Ste was like this is what the inside of a startup looks like. This is crazy. And so we got all this traffic to the website. And at this point, we're trying to market a lot. I'm writing a lot of blog posts. And the blog posts are about our products. They're only about the products. It's like the 10 reasons you need to use video hosting. And the five reasons why video hosting will change your business. And we're getting very few visitors to these things. And this video takes off. >> Yeah. >> Tens of thousands of visitors quickly. And you were excited. But the again the surprising thing was we had a only like a twoe trial back then. Two weeks later, bunch of new paying customers. >> That is crazy. >> And so it was like seeing that people came in to just like see what's going with this company, not planning to use the product, but hitting the website, finding out what the product was, signing up, and then getting enough value to become become a customer. And that was the moment that it started to click of like, wait a second, there is like there's something to this. And I like I look back on as like pre that moment and then after that moment because after that moment we we started to say like well hey this was really fun and we're showing behind the scenes like what other stuff can we do like that. It was a really freeing moment because like we made the team page the like dancing team page which you might have taken the photo of this. >> I did. Yeah. >> And there's like six of us on it because we'd had that video and then we're like oh we should put up a team page that shows the six people in the company now. >> It'll be business. So it was in front of a whiteboard. >> Yeah. But when Chris was taking the photos, it was like standard and then it was like smile and then he told us to go crazy. So we had like an alternate version of everybody. And when Brennan put the page up, he put an Easter egg that if you type dance, then it would randomly switch the photos of each person in their spot. So it look like they're dancing and it would play girl talk which would like >> huge at huge Gucci man sample. >> Gucci man sample. It had like lasers, you know, shooting off the page. >> And this was just But I remember when Brendon did it, he's like it was there. >> Yeah. Oh wow. I cannot believe you're allowing this. This is great. >> Oh, buddy. This Yeah, it's fine. >> Here you go, buddy. Here. >> It should be eaten. >> Oh. >> Oh, buddy. >> There you go. How about it? >> Yeah. >> He gets anything he wants in these he needs it. >> Were Were other brands doing this at the time or did this feel like >> this felt >> I think Yeah, it was very novel obviously. So, YouTube was pretty established at this point and it existed in consumer world. in the world of business, there was not any of this stuff happening, which to give you credit, Lavine, that was like very very early on that trend. And I think to your point, the other thing that was funny about this is like we had this very serious team page and we thought we were tricking people, >> but it like of course everyone you can see right through that. You're like, "This is a tiny website. This thing was just established. which is probably some young kids who have no idea what they're doing. So having like this freeing moment of actually being ourselves and then also realizing wait a second the thing we thought was helping us. Of course nobody was buying that anymore. >> Yeah. I think what I didn't understand too was that until this moment I didn't understand is that people wanted to buy from a small company >> like they wanted to buy from a startup like though the customers of a startup they're picking the startup on purpose. like there are often other options but like they think that they're going to be more innovative or they yeah they're going to they're going to take a different approach and like we were not leaning into the thing that actually was our advantage right so then it became a lot easier after this where we just kept started to I remember talking to you and saying like hey we're going to make you like how many videos do you guys really need like three videos five videos there was like we were thinking about this like fixed mindset thing and then we're like no we're going to need a video for every product we build we're going to need a video for all the new stuff we're going to need all this content stuff >> way And yeah, that's what it felt like at first and then we started doing that >> and it was like like the replace video was another one where I remember we launched replace video so you could just like have a video in the embed and you could if there was a problem with it you could just replace it keep the same embed and we solved this problem for ourselves or solve it for customers and support. We turn it into a feature. The features built really quickly. Schneur builds it in like an afternoon. Even back then, you can still [laughter] do it. And um we're like, we should make a video. And so you make the video >> and that video was like silly. And like it had our own logo spelled incorrectly at the end. And it was like uh that was the video was like watching the video play back. Someone's watching it has oh my god. And then we go back and you can replace the video. And it did so well. It did so well on Reddit, on social, in email. Customers got it. They wanted to use it. And it was like this. That was when I was like, "Oh, this is all we have to do." It's just like act. And it was also much more fun to launch a product that way. >> Seeing a video for a tiny feature was extremely uncommon back then. Now it is of course common, but >> And also we had Lenny. >> Yeah. Well, yeah. Lenny Lenny Lenny just helped himself to some of those grilled cheese for for those of you at home, [laughter] those you're listening. Uh, >> and Lenny was the star of many a video. >> Exactly. Yeah. Lenny Lenny, our dog, unofficial mascot. It just happened kind of out of >> out of by accident. He was a puppy. I had to take him up to the office because nobody could let him out to pee. Had to drive up from uh Rhode Island. Had to pack a lunch. Such a long drive up. But then but uh but then I remember like I didn't want to bother anybody because I was still kind of new and I needed somebody to stand in for a video and everyone seemed very busy and I didn't want to bother everyone. And so I was like, I'll just throw Lenny in this thing and I just So I put him in one of the first videos and then people >> He's beloved. >> Yeah. He seemed to like it. >> Like we were legitimately having fun. >> Yes. >> It's very hard to fake. >> Yeah. >> That and I think that's also it's fun to watch. >> Yeah. >> That's what we talked about the culture. Remember we said we're putting so much of our culture on camera that like we won't be able to fake it. >> And so that will be the other thing that forces us to invest in culture >> because like it's easy to to I Not easy. But I think like it's so common for people to sacrifice on culture in the name of growth. >> Totally. >> And we told ourselves like well culture is why we were actually still doing this 5 years in why we're doing it 10 years. Why we're doing it 20 years in and like we have to actually prioritize that. And if you are actually transparent with what it's like to work there, if the culture gets shitty, it will be obvious. >> Serial, I wanted to show some videos, but I realize we're running really low on time. What do you think? One. >> One. You're asking me to share one video over 20 years. >> One video from I know. >> Oh man. >> You have a hard stop. >> I don't have a hard stop. You have a hard stop. >> You have a hard stop. >> I have a hard stop. >> You're trying to throw it on me. All right. Let's see what we got here. >> Let's see what we got. >> Okay. Let's go ahead and All right. So, this is 2012. >> Okay. >> We launched the free plan. And up until this point, we had been making we had been making some pretty fun videos, but they were all kind of in camera gags, straight straight reads, >> camera gags, >> in camera effects, I should say. You know, practical gag practical effects. >> But then this this marked a pretty serious moment when Dan started working with us. And then the ace in the hole or the ace up our sleeve. >> Yeah, that one. >> Ace up our sleeve was music. Mhm. >> And so let's just watch a little bit of this free rap. >> We [music] are super excited to announce the Wistia free plan. >> Free. >> This is Brendan rapping right now for all of you >> watching. Not watching. >> So some of us are having a little bit of trouble containing their excitement around this one. So, before Brennan goes off again, the free plan comes with three videos, 15 gigs of bandwidth, all the tools you've [music] come to love, like smooth playback, super embeds, and >> statistics. Watch me crank it, watch me roll, watch me super embed the video. Check your stats. [music] So, let that cash in your money. >> Finally, we don't have to keep this a secret anymore. Here's to Wistia for all. One more insane dollar bills. [music] The best part about it is it don't cost >> bleeping. Bleeping. >> Bleeping is funny. [music] Don't feel good. It's >> a classic uh laugh ending too. Great. >> BTS. >> That is amazing. >> How does this make you feel, Brendon? Are you proud of this or are you cringing? No, I'm proud of it. My finest work. I The uh hitting Max Cole over the head with the picture of himself is my favorite. >> Well, I mean, I have more videos, but I mean, we don't have time for >> We don't have time. CRL, everybody. >> Thank you. >> Thank you, man. [applause] >> Thank you, CRL. >> Thank you. >> Thanks so much. Thanks so much. >> Congratulations. >> Yeah. Thank you so much. [laughter] >> Amazing. Okay. You found your brand voice. Just recapping. you found your brand voice. Uh the product is evolving. The company is expanding. There's a lot of growth, but then there's this pressure to keep growing. So, how did that change things inside Wistia? How did that eventually lead to the buyback? >> Yeah, basically we we had been doing our own thing. We had been, I think, following our instincts, excited about that for a while, and we had a lot of success. Like the company grew a lot. we were quite profitable and then we hit this moment where we're like, you know, as we're sharing that with others. We're talking to other entrepreneurs. We're going to events. We're talking to investors just to like hear what people think about the business. And basically, everybody's telling us like, you guys are screwing this up. Like, you could be growing much faster if you aren't profitable. You should be investing more in growth. You should be greenlighting more things. You should be taking more risk. And at first, we didn't listen to that. We just did our own thing. at some point like you know first time doing this some imposttor syndrome gets in there and you're like maybe we should be growing way more maybe we are screwing this up and so we started trying to grow a lot harder and we basically made bolder plans uh hired more people created more projects and in the short term it very much I think like from the outside looked like it was working so we were like launching new programs left and right new features left and right um >> got those billboards on the highway. We got billboards. We did we did all these things and hoping it's going to add up, but it wasn't really moving the needle. Like it wasn't impacting the business the way you would expect it to. And so at some point as that's happening and the business is running negative now as opposed to being profitable, we're not growing as fast. Um it just starts to weigh on you. And you know, we're deep into this at this point. We're nine years into the company. and um both very very busy in our day-to-days. We're not really talking about what the company feels like. We're just kind of doing it. >> Mhm. >> And at that exact moment, we had three different companies approach us about acquiring Wistia. >> And um in software and SAS, like there's always people poking around. They want to buy things and leverage them up and do some other thing with them. There's private equity. There's and we'd always just never even had those conversations. But this time, because it was three companies at once, we decided we're going to talk to them and see this through a little bit and and and see what's there. And I think that's that was like a that was a big moment. Yeah. I think we it was I think it was in that moment too that we then were able to have a conversation about what this actually felt like between the two of us that we were not it's like something you're in a relationship and you're like well if I say this problem like now it's a real problem we're going to have to deal with it and and that was a forcing function I think to deal with some things that >> uh were happening in the business that we didn't really like. They kind of it almost felt like they happened to us. And I feel like this was this other moment that when we like got to the core of it, it kind of was a really similar feeling to the moment we described earlier about where we were like seeding some control or like responsibility to to like there was nobody else really there. That's why it would felt kind of um >> like silly to admit that to ourselves. We're like, "Oh, these problems are our own. We can fix them." We were chasing growth and kind of going against some instincts to run the business negative. Doing all these growth hacks which you referenced at the start of this instead of uh you know doing some of the thing like this great content marketing that was like really propelling the business or being really focused on customers u and building the product like the product these things that we know so well and were actually driving business results. And then uh I feel like the the crux of it when we were looking at this, which would have been like any one of these offers would be this, you know, like a life-changing amount of money for us. We're like, well, okay, so say we do this. What is the future look like for the two of us? Well, we have a really special partnership. We love working together. Obviously, we're going to start another business. What should the business be? Uh well, there's a lot of stuff to do in video. We got to like we should do that. Who we hire? And we're like sitting across on a loading dock across from the office at this point. We're like looking at the office. We're like the naming the people we're hired. They all work at Wistia. >> And this also like the first time we're having this conversation. Yeah. Like it's the first time like now that they like you have the offer sitting there, you can actually imagine it. And like that's what I think was so funny about this is like oh we're actually b like Yeah, we know we were on the same page on all of this. >> Yeah. And then you obviously you just get to the bottom of that list and you're like what are we doing? Like we have control of the business at this point. we have outside investors but we we are running the business. We have control over these things. We can change the course of the business. And I think it it was really in that moment that we didn't know what exactly we wanted to change. But it was this feeling of like we're not done yet. We have more to do with Wistia. Like we have built this incredible brand. We have an incredible team and we are in a market that we like and like all we have all this stuff going right and these things that are really weighing on us. we have the ability to change that. And so that was really like the seed of that is then what ultimately le led to the we had no idea what debt was or I mean we knew what debt was technically no idea how to do any of that stuff or even if that would be the right at that moment but we had like so much conviction I feel like in that moment of like we're going to turn down these offers and we're going to like chart our own path and figure it out. >> Yeah. And I think we admitted to each other that we're both unhappy with how things were going. And actually a lot of the stuff we were just talking about in terms of the brand and the creative investments, like those have been the hardest things to invest in when we were running negative. And so we were also felt like we were missing part of the secret sauce just by the the the pure ask of like growth at any cost. And so our secret hope was we'd do the buyback, we'd get back control of the business, it would force us to be profitable, and then all those like really creative investments would get easier to make and they would add up. I think it's also in moments like that where we realized why those things work like because they are hard to do in a moment like that where we just have this that's like more normal pre pressure sorry pressure can't say that word is under business is under which is like trying to grow fast you know have like doing all these things and yeah that's the stuff you cut is these more speculative things that the world generally >> is like we don't know if that's valuable but then you know some of the things like we value. We just have innate value over we've learned that it's valuable to the marketer customers. Um I feel like that's where the edge is and it's it's kind of obvious when you say it out loud, but it's very sometimes hard in the moment. Yeah. >> To see those things. >> Yeah. I mean it's interesting that like the offers forced this clarity at this time when like you were both kind of feeling the same way but not naming it and then you land on the other side. You you decide we're we're going to do this buyback. It was the right decision. I think there are a few other people who want to weigh in on the buyback story. >> Carlo, [clears throat] >> what the hell is going on? >> We heard the story. >> We know the lore. >> The company was drifting, >> but not anymore. >> You took a leap. >> You saw [clears throat] it through. >> So, tip your hats. >> Hats off. Hats off to you. [singing] [laughter] >> What the Thank you. Very good. >> Wow. [laughter] What the hell's going on? >> That was so weird. >> It was. >> Thank you guys. [laughter] >> Incredible memorization. >> Incredible memorization of those lines. >> Yeah, that [laughter] was really quite something. >> It was all worth it. >> It was Thank you. That was good. >> Well, the top hats have spoken. Great decision. >> Thank you so much. >> Great decision, fellas. >> Yeah. >> Um, you buy back the company. Things start things start moving back in the right direction. It feels like the next big inflection point. I mean, I know there are several, but the next big big inflection point is the pandemic. >> Offices close. Nobody knows what's coming next. You've got a pretty big team at this point. What do you remember about leading people through that moment? >> I mean, I remember thinking it's >> all been erased. No, I What I remember about leading through that moment is like, oh [ __ ] we have to like like this sucks. This is bad. Like this is a thing that you don't think is going to happen. Like back to like taking responsibility. I think we felt full responsibility for the company, full responsibility for the team, and we also were like, this is just not a thing that you realize like you're ever going to have to do. And so that was very it was very stressful. I mean I remember even shutting down the office was like a really big deal. >> Yeah, that was a pretty stressful decision. I because we we shut down the office on the early side of people doing that. So you feel a little bit crazy, right? You're like the world was unsure what was going to happen. Well, we we should do this. I also remember feeling this was I think just pure luck but very thankful that we had done this buyback and gotten the business profitable again because that would have been a hundred times more stressful. >> Oh that was in that moment >> it was not in vogue for a software company to be profitable when 2020 hit >> and so we were very counter to everything and that also we're like well we're no stress at all and and I think we were able to remove that for that stress for from ourselves and for the team and that felt like a really big deal. >> Yeah. And yeah, I mean, but a lot of changes happened quickly. Like we were about 90 people precoid and then like it drove more growth for us. We hired more folks. We went remote. Um we were quite productive remote and we'd had pressure from different people on the team over the years to go remote, especially engineers and stuff and they're like, "Hey, look, we're more productive like this. Like, can't we do this?" It seemed like that was going to happen. And we did that. And then we decided to really expand our strategy tremendously and say, "Hey, we're not just going to do video hosting. We're gonna actually get into the game fully on recording and editing and webinars and all. We signed up for like tremendous expansion in terms of the footprint of the product. That meant we expanded the team. So under our own steam, we hired tons of people, grew the company. It was just a lot. It was a lot of it was a lot of change at once. I think also like we really came together. We did, you know, we introduced programs for customers who were going through hard times and um free Wistia for educational programs that were struggling in that moment and we just did I felt like that was the cool part was like we were able to just make a lot of decisions based on our values and purely what we thought made sense long term and I felt very fortunate as Bren's saying that we had done the buyback because like it was not didn't feel like we had to compromise on any of those things. Did it feel like what I remember from the pandemic is just being on video all the time? Like first just to like stay connected with friends and family and then >> Teams I'm like in work meetings just like on Google Meet and Zoom and >> did it feel like the world had finally caught up to this bet that you'd been making all along that like video was table stakes that it would be the way that businesses operated? it. You know what was interesting was we realized that people don't have to use new stuff. Like lots of industries like they're fine and yeah maybe they could grow slightly more if they embrace all this new tech stuff but they don't have to. And that was the moment of like well like fear of technology, fear of change, fear of new things forced everyone through this kn hole >> that and we got on the other side. is like, "Yeah, you can do a Zoom meeting and you can be anywhere when you do it." And your kids walking in like I always think about that guy who was on CNN or whatever and his like kids walk that was pre-COVID and that was like went viral because that was so rare that that could happen. That is not a rare thing. Doesn't feel weird at all. Like our whole culture shifted, right? It doesn't it does not feel weird to see somebody >> calling into something from their car, >> right? It's I mean maybe it is weird but like it's doesn't it's not jarring in the way that it was before and that is a big change and so it did feel like people had caught up um more it just like felt like people were forced to be educated about this all at once >> and then everybody I think had to the long tale of people who work in a business or knowledge workers is a weird thing to say like you're [clears throat] on video all the time and just have now have a level of comfort with it >> that it wasn't the case before the pandemic. I think the world was heading in that direction but to Chris's point there was no forcing function that was a forcing function for a large portion of the world. >> Yeah. And you mentioned that like as sort of a reaction to everyone leveling up in that way like the platform Wistia really became a platform. >> So can you just talk about that a little bit like what [clears throat] it went from? You guys went from being >> sort of known for video hosting to then being >> something more robust. Yeah, I think there was there's like a thread through all of this too. We didn't really touch on it when we were um when we had built the first version of Wistia for Ezra's company part we always were a little bit afraid of competing with, you know, things like way outside of our league, right? We're like two people in a bedroom. We're not going to compete with YouTube, right? That was huge at the time. And I think we were pretty happy in our like large but still little niche of video hosting for a long time. And that moment was video had just become so much more popular and important to the for the world. And when we went out we basically caused us to go out to the market and try to get a fresh perspective on what our customers actually wanted. And then what came back was they expect live video in the platform. from the expected video like all these things that we had talked about over the years but we're like I don't know that's like going to be a lot more competition it's going to be hard to build all these products we're a small team and I think in that moment we were like this is the reality of the world and then we got excited about that concept but it was still a big like we basically like Chris said we doubled the team in the span of 18 months to build all these new products and it was hard because we had we had a really great product like our video hosting product is So, you know, 15 years old and it is the clear leader in the market for that and it it was kind of humbling to be like, okay, we're going to enter some of these new product categories um for the first time and I think like probably underestimated like how much work some of that would be if I'm being honest looking back. [laughter] >> They're great now. >> You know what's funny is you're talking about that thinking in the beginning of like yeah, we'll just this will take six months. We'll get this done and >> we had that again. Yeah. >> Yeah. Well, that's also like I feel like that's been like a superpower is like we figured this out and that yeah, hard stuff takes a long time. So, how you do the work matters. Like that's still true. And sometimes just like getting close to that customer and figuring out the rough edges and saying them off and like making it better and easier and better and easier like it ultimately does add up. Um, but it's actually hard to do that because most people succumb to the short-term pressures and that is where like yeah, you might there's lots of stuff you can do that's going to boost your revenue in the short term that's going to hurt in the long term. And so I think it was like that felt like a something that we could do from the way that the company was funded and our approach and our culture and the brand and all of these things. And because it's cool now, like all those things that we started investing in like 2021, they rolled out slowly and they got better and better and they're most of them are like pretty world class at this point, which is sick, but it but it takes time and you have to really be willing to be patient to do it. >> Well, it feels like now is also one of those times where you're having to like meet the moment and the moment is AI. So, what's exciting you the most um about like what you're building for customers? >> Yeah. So the f Yeah, it is funny that the biggest change is happening now and >> 20 years in. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> 20 years in >> and I would say like the two of us have a pretty good time and I think that [laughter] it's pretty funny. It's like yeah it's it's disruptive and it's big and it's and the amount of change is like really hard to imagine but like feels a lot like the beginning and you you there is no roadmap. Uh no one can tell you what to do. There's no best practice. Mhm. >> You just have to figure it out and you have to work with first principles. You got to use your culture and like you got to go after the problems that you think you can solve really well. And I think that that has been like really invigorating and really fun. >> Yeah. I think we do our best work in that. It's like you've landed in a new city, you have no map, and you're like, "Ooh, like where can we go?" Because like, you know, you just don't Yeah. That exploration and process is extremely fun. And I feel like that's what's yeah that is what's happening now. And the other piece like more connected to our customers is there are things that are now possible with AI that we've wanted we've wished we could do almost since the beginning of like we had Chris Lavine we're talking we've talked and helped so many people make better video but we've had to do it through content >> and now there are like really viable product solutions that can coach people through and and do some of the production or editing for them to make better video and that is super that's a really fun product to build. >> You know, it's funny. We didn't really talk about this today, but like after we did all the hiring that it was only after we did all the hiring that we lost the excuse of, hey, we always had felt kind of understaffed and now we had tons of people and we were still slow and we changed our culture and figure out how to go really fast like before AI came along like we're shipping faster. I would say like any of our direct competitors all of them with tremendously you know more resources if they've raised lots of money and all this stuff and now like the same thing is happening with AI which is like requiring like a cultural shift and you don't exactly know where you're going to end up but like I think we're learning things at like a similar scale that's like we're finding like internally at Wistia it's like night and day. It's wild how much has changed. >> Yeah. in terms of our speed, the quality we have of expectations, like the different things we can do with the brand, the different products that we can go after and attack. And I think that part is just like if you're if you're excited about building something new, like this might be the best time that we've ever done this 20 years, which is wild to to think. >> You can feel like the energy that's just like bubbling up all the time at Wistia. Um, and even amidst all these changes, I'm sure there's stuff that has been just so consistent from the jump since day one. So, if the 2006 versions of you walked into Wistia today, like what would still feel really familiar? >> When we do that hug [laughter] or say looking sharp, >> looking sharp. I feel like the same kind of energy now because there are just so many open possibilities and it is I think really hard to predict the future right now in a way that it felt really similar and fun when we started. We just really like we were on this six-mon timeline like Chris said. So we just didn't know like past we're like this is just like silly to predict past that and if that feels similar. So I feel like uh I don't know if we're talking to our old like that feeling of excitement and adventure that kind of got us into this in the first place. We have come full circle to that again. >> Yeah. I think I would probably tell tell myself from back then like actually make decisions based on that cuz like most >> that feeling >> that feeling because I think that like the the bigger mistakes we've made have been when we let ourselves be like h no it it kind of can't feel like that anymore. We have to do this normal thing and then we get like a normal result. And sometimes those were really small decisions and sometimes those were bigger things that like took us off course. And I think um that's those are the hardest ones. Those are the hardest things to do. I think is like you know follow your instinct in a moment when you can't even fully explain why. You just know it doesn't feel right. It's like not >> you don't see yourself wanting to continue to do this like aspect of the work anymore or whatever. It's like it might not be the right work. And even if everybody's telling you that it is and the research study tells you that it is and like the people who paid you to help with pricing tell you that it is and all this other stuff, it's like you have to still let yourself do that which you have no option but to do that at the beginning. >> Yeah. And I think the other piece would be I don't know how to say this eloquently but like it it is entirely your responsibility like it is within your control and your responsibility is nobody else's. And I think all these moments that we led to failure and the thing that got us out of it was a realization of like it's ours to fix. It's like we >> coming to save you. >> No one's coming to save us. Yeah. It was never someone else's decision all like it was just our projection of what we thought others would want us to do. >> I think that's like spot on. I think and I think that the thing that you is no one else gonna fix it but like if you have an amazing team like they're going to do it with you and that's what makes the work great and easy and fun and it's also like why also I mean I I'm I'm having a hard time not thinking about all like >> different people challenges we've had over the years where basically we just should have followed our instincts more quickly you know and um like the the vibe actually matters like the vibe of the work matters it mattered at the beginning mattered 10 years And it really matters now. And like I think the biggest difference is that I think we'd probably be shocked by is that Whist. I think that if you told me in 2006 that we would be like remote in 2026, but we would have been remote for 6 years. I would never have believed that >> they have video calling in the future. >> Holy [ __ ] [laughter] >> Well, speaking of vibes, there's one more video. One more video that we want to play for you. >> Is that how it should start? You should just be like Hey, Brendan. What are you doing? >> Huh? Sorry. >> We discussed this and we decided we were going to do a classy invitation this time. >> All right. All right. You're right. That's what we agreed to. Loud and clear. Loud and clear. [laughter] >> The New England Technology Entrepreneur of the Year is Chris Savage and Bren. >> We are super excited. Super excited. We are super excited. Super excited. We are crazy excited. And I'm really excited. Super excited. We're really excited. Really excited. We're super excited. >> We're really excited. Really excited. We're super excited. [laughter] Now, >> I'm not going to ruin any surprises, but let's just say we're rolling [music] out some pretty powerful video tools. >> Hey there, it's Chris and Brendon from Wistia, and we are super super super excited right now. >> All right, 20 years of Wistia. Here we go. >> Wow. Well, has it really been 20 years? That is crazy. I guess time does fly when you're having fun. >> Hey, Chris and Brendon. I remember when you wanted to start the [music] company some 20 odd years ago, and you came to me to help raise some money to do so. Well, things didn't always go as planned. [laughter] Wow. Determination, you managed to pull it off. >> Hi, [music] my name's Ben Ruinger. [laughter] >> I started working with Chris and Brendan a bit over 18 years ago. >> Chris and Brendan. Oh, mom and dad on the 20th anniversary of Wistia. [laughter] >> Congratulations on the 20th anniversary of >> you transformed your college friendship into a thriving company by exercising very good judgment made from great hires and developing a very positive working environment. [laughter] >> We are confident that your friendship and wise management at Wistia will lead to continuing success. All right, I got loose. I [music] did my first take. This is the second take. I've been at Wistia for 11 years. And in that, I've learned nothing about being on camera, [music] unfortunately. [laughter] >> And Brendan, congratulations on 20 years. What an incredible achievement. >> I dawned an old Wistia favorite swag item for this video. >> What's happening, Wistia? Jonah here, class of [laughter] 2015 to 2020. As you can see, I'm wearing the finest and that's a good one. That's a good one. >> Vintage cycling apparent. >> I believe he really wears that. >> There we go. >> That is uh >> day 889 since leaving with [laughter] >> Congratulations Brendan and Chris on 20 years of success. From a scrappy beginning, you've built Wistia into a successful, respected [laughter] business. Nice framing on this. Nice. >> Growing all these years. >> Best wishes for the years to [laughter] come. >> Love you. >> My best Chris Savage impression. Uh, it'd probably be like, >> "Hey guys, uh, [laughter] >> we are super excited to announce." >> We are super excited to announce. >> So, I'm listening to this new podcast. I'm super excited about it. It's all about modules. >> Modules. Modules. [laughter] >> We got a new navigation. Modules. Newation. >> Best Brennan impression. >> Oh my god. >> Here we go. say straight face. [laughter] He's got this nod where like you don't know if he's [music] saying yes or no, but [laughter] he hates me every time. >> Memorable Brendan moments. Brendan volunteered to have a pie thrown on to his face on Pi Day, which we used to celebrate annually. >> I'll always remember Brendan got like this thermal regulation. I got that thing >> watch and it would like try to warm or cool his body thermal regulate and make it a real thing. >> I couldn't believe that was real. [laughter] >> Revan was >> just cool the body down >> doing either a cartwheel or a front flip or something. A toddler at the time guy [laughter] was out there with him and Brendan totally wiped out and I think that got shown at like an AHM or something and I grabbed that piece of the video and used that as my testing video. That video got a lot of traction in my account. >> A while back on Brendan's birthday, we obtained some baby photos of him and set up the website so that if you visited it from the office IP address, you would see Brendan's baby face bouncing all around the Wistia homepage. And we of course were careful not to tell Brendan that this was limited to the office. >> Hey Chris and Brendan, Dan Mills here, Wistia's VP of marketing. Just wanted to say a quick [laughter] congratulations on hitting 20 years and thank you for everything you guys have done and thanks [laughter] for hiring that guy Chris Lavine. He's he's pretty awesome. >> Hey Chris and Brendan, Kevin here and I'm super excited to congratulate you on 20 years of building Wistia. You've built a business and a company culture that sits at the top of its class, not only in Boston, but everywhere. [music] >> Hey Chris and Brendan, congratulations on 20 years. Hey Chris and Brendan, I remember when I was a little 22-year-old who started working at Wissia eight years ago and you were both so approachable and it was so nice to start at a new company and have these two co-founders who were just like so nice and easy to talk to and that still totally rings true today. >> Chris and Brennan, it was truly an honor to work alongside you guys. >> Chris and Brendan, 20 years. That's wild. That's like older than me. two years. >> It's like older than me. Mom, >> you guys have made a huge impact on how I approach work, how I approach collaboration. So, just want to thank you for that and again wish you a happy 20. >> What's up, Chris and Brendan? Uh, I got a call from Uncle Jerome earlier today and he wanted me to convey congratulations to you guys on building a great business. I think we should be so proud of what we have built here. And um it is really really cool [music] to show up sincerely for such a long time to build something that you can be genuinely proud of. Um and I am. >> Congratulations on Wistia turning 20 years old. Chris and Brendan, what a time it has been. a really [music] deep gratitude um and appreciation for how much y'all care obviously about the business but also the [music] team and each of us at individuals. Um I have certainly felt that care and investment throughout my time and [music] so just truly want to say thank you for that. >> I just want to say thank you for all that you've done for me for everyone who's been at Wistia. What an incredible journey it's been. Congratulations. Wistia is a company and it's also a product, but I think most importantly, it's a community of people. People come here, stick around for a pretty long time, and really care deeply about building something that's really good [music] for users. >> Wistia enjoys a reputation of being a very peopleforward [music] company. And I think it shines through in a lot of different ways about how much the people here mean [music] to you, how much Wistia means to you, and just kind of showing the industry that you can do things another [music] way. And I'm just very appreciative that I get to be a part of that. >> It's hard to keep any company alive for just a few years. It's [music] really hard to do it for 20 years. And I think it's hard to do it with the kind of care and integrity that y'all have done it. There have been a lot of ups and downs [music] over the past 20 years and their constant optimism and positivity is amazing to watch. It's really inspiring in many ways. >> I think it's really a testament to the company that Brennan and Savage have built that it is such [music] a great place to work and it's supportive of their employees. >> You should be really proud of what you've built over the last 20 years. Wistia is a [music] very special place to work. It's a human first culture that cares about its people and its customers. And you've also made it really fun. And so [music] congratulations on 20 years. >> Thank you for building such a fantastic [music] company to work at. >> Congratulations guys for making it to 20. >> Congrats Brennan and Chris. Miss you guys and talk soon. >> Congratulations on growing a profitable and successful business. It's a place where people want to come to work and have some fun. Good job. [laughter] >> Good morning. Good morning. We've talked the whole night through. Good morning. Good morning to you and you and you. >> It's going to [laughter] be out of sight. >> Old logo. >> Wow. >> So, >> what [clears throat] a journey. How do you feel watching that? >> I got choked up a couple times. >> Yeah. Yeah. [sighs] >> It's a lot to take in. >> It's a lot. It was awesome. >> Well, I guess I just have one one last question for you guys. This this whole thing started with a couple of laptops and a dream. So, 20 years in, what's the dream now? >> Yeah. Yeah, I mean I think I hope the next 20 can feel if it can feel [clears throat] anything like the first 20, we'll be in good shape. >> Well said. >> We're just too emotional. Neither right now. I felt tears welling at one point. I was like, "Fight it, [laughter] man. >> Let them out. Let the tears out." I let them out. I know. Cried out. Um, any any last words, last thoughts? >> No, I mean I think I feel um it was really it was very nice to see that video with a bunch of former Wistians who will always be Wistians at heart. Um because I think a about that a lot like we just did our company offsite and had almost everybody there and there's like so many people who have helped us build this business and um you know we get a lot of the credit uh for it but I we could not have done it without everybody who's here now and everybody who worked with us over the whole period of the time. So it just that made me feel like really awesome to see all those people um and think about all the others who have played a played a role in in building this company. So >> yeah, it's really humbling to see that. Like Chris said, this is Yeah, the two of us didn't get very far on our own as we just went through the the history of Wistia. And yeah, the most fun and joyful part of this past 20 years has been like the energy and excitement of working with a group of people who are so passionate and creative. Um like that's what really makes Wistia special. >> [ __ ] yeah. >> Yeah. >> [ __ ] yeah. Also hilarious to see both of our parents on camera in there. >> They did a great job >> every time. Every time it >> um well this has been an absolute blast going all the way back to the beginning. No thanks Tom Hanks to today. >> Oh my god. >> Right now. Um it's it's amazing seeing what you guys have built. It's amazing seeing all the people who have built it with you. And congrats to 20. Here's to 20 more. >> Thank you, Sylvie. >> Thank you to you, Sylvia Leau. >> Yeah. Don't forget to uh like and subscribe wherever you see the podcast. So, uh you can always find us on LinkedIn. You can message us directly. Happy to engage and chat. And if you have ideas for topics or things you want us to cover, let us know. God, thank you. [music] >> [music]
