# Negotiation Masterclass 32 Minutes of Proven Negotiation Tactics (B2B Sales)

Channel: 30MPC (30 Minutes to President's Club)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=LbcfLsCYPuM
Upload date: 2026-06-23

---

So, you're working a deal. You get right down to the goal line and the customer is asking for a discount. They're asking for a concession. Suddenly, what do we do? Well, we change personalities from what it took to sell the deal >> [music] >> to now negotiating it, which many cases involves us both lying to each other. What if I told you there was an opportunity to execute a negotiation where you're discounting less, speeding up your sales cycles, building trust instead of eroding it, and making [music] that feeling of anxiety that you get during a negotiation go away. That's what we're going to be doing here. >> Well, this is Todd Caponi. He is a former Chief Revenue Officer who has negotiated over $100 million in software sales and wrote the best-selling books on negotiation. And today, he is going to give you the exact talk tracks to handle any price or commercial objection you could possibly get in a B2B sales cycle. If you want to go deeper, Todd built a full course on negotiation with us at 30 minutes to President's Club. The link's below, but now, let's get into it. And so, we're going to go through five different pricing objections, some of the ones that can shrink your deal the most or slow it down or kill it entirely. We're going to start with the biggest, most common one, which is, "I want a discount." And in this case, "I want a massive discount." We'll call it maybe a 35% discount or a 50% discount. >> So, [music] a couple of weeks earlier, I happened to be at my headquarters talking to my CFO. And we were just having a conversation [music] about the drivers that drive our business. They also happen to be the things that drive our pricing model. Turns out, these four things are the four things that [music] drive your business model, and likely in some former fashion, they also drive your pricing model, too. So, in this room, anxiety was high. I was not a good traditional negotiator. And I'm sitting in a room with a group of individuals who are basically professional negotiators. I looked up, behind them was a whiteboard. So, I said, "Listen, do you mind before we get started if I share the four things that drive our business model and our pricing model?" They looked at me and they're like, "Yeah, sure. Go ahead." Everybody was just getting settled in the room anyway. So, I wrote down four things. These are the four things, like I said, that drive your business model. They've drove ours, every for-profit business model in the world, and they also drive your pricing model. So, number one is volume. Meaning the first thing that drives your business is how much stuff people buy from you. Products, services, licenses, locations. The more stuff that people commit to buying from you, that's better than committing to less. The second one, it turns out we all like money. Business models and pricing models, for the most part, are driven by how fast the customers pay. So, the timing of cash. Customers that pay faster, that's better than customers that pay slower. Okay? Number three is how long they commit to your stuff, your volume. So, the length of commitment, which means the longer they commit to your products, technology, and services, the better. Longer commitment's better than shorter. Who knew? And then number four is predictability or the timing of the deal. So, being able to align around when the customer will sign is valuable as well. I go sit down. They look at them fascinated, right? Oh, that's great, Todd. Good for you. You've got great penmanship. That was about the extent of their interest in what I had just written on the whiteboard. They immediately go into this conversation. They said, "Todd, hey, the reason that we wanted you to come down here is we've got this division that's ready to go, and we've got your proposal, but unfortunately, here's the grenade throw, the big discount ask, it's quite a reach, too high for our budget. We need to get 35% off of this in order to move forward. So, what do you do? They're asking for a 35% discount. Well, I'm telling you there's three things you can do, two of which I would not recommend. The first one I would not recommend is going into the value argument, right? That's a lot of what I was taught growing up in sales is compared to what? And we go into this we believe the ROI of our solution justifies the price. Shut up. Stop it, right? That ship has sailed. If we're talking about value and ROI and trying to make that logical case at the goal line, that ship has sailed. Nobody in that room cares about the value or the ROI. Option number two, which I also do not recommend, is the way that most organizations do their negotiating and I see it today and I used to do this too. I refer to it as the ping-pong approach, right? The ping-pong approach is they've asked for a 35% discount. Our response is Hey, I I can give you 10% off. I don't even have to ask my manager for approval. Would that work? And we start the bidding. They ask for 35, we respond with 10. We keep going back and forth. Like, "Oh, no, it's going to have to be lower than that. We're going to have to get down to 25% at least." "Oh, okay. Well, uh I think I can get to 15." "No, we got to go a little further." We end up at 18. We basically end up half. They've asked for 35, we end up in the middle. If they would have asked for 30%, we probably would have ended at 15, right? And basically what we've done in that situation is we have blown up the integrity of our pricing model and we have contributed 18% of this deal, this one, two and a half million dollars a year for 3 years. We have contributed 18% of that in the form of charity to their bottom line. I would not recommend doing that either. Option number three is these four things that I wrote on the board. These are the four levers of negotiating. It sounded like this. There are three steps to handling any concession request that you are ever asked for. They're simple. Step number one is to be human. Be human. Meaning they've asked for 35% off. Aren't you at least a little curious? Why 35%? Why not 50%? Why not 20%? Where is this coming from? Number two is to review all four levers, which we are going to do. So, all four levers. And then number three is to walk through them together. So, be a human being. They've asked for 35% off. The first question is, "Hey, tell me about that. What Why 35%? Is it a budget issue? Is it a the value equation issue where they don't believe that the value is worth that? Are they just asking just to ask?" So, we asked that question. "Hey, you've asked for 35%. Where did that come from? Why that number?" We have a human to human conversation. But then step two is where the magic happened. I walked up to the whiteboard again and said, "Hey, remember these four things that I wrote on the whiteboard? Maybe we can use this as a guide to help us get a little bit closer to what you're looking for." They looked at me confused. They didn't know what the heck I was talking about, which is cool. So, like, I'll take you through them. So, we started with number one. Number one was volume. So, I explained to them, "Hey, these are the four things that drive our business model. They also happen to be the four things that drive their business model, too, which just creates that empathy, why it's so important to use these four. But, I talked them through each one individually. So, we start with volume. I started by explaining them to the core driver of the pricing model is volume, meaning how much stuff you buy. Now, in this case, they were buying seats licenses. Their price was determined by the number of seats or licenses that they were committing to. I explained to them that listen, based on the volume of seats that you are committing to for this first division at your organization, you have earned a tiered discount. You probably have tiered pricing, too. That is based on that volume commitment. I explained to them this, that in this organization, they had multiple divisions. There was a second division that had been looking at us. They weren't quite there yet. But I explained to them this, that hey listen, if you are willing to commit to more volume in this initial purchase, meaning accelerate division two into this one, that additional volume commitment is valuable to us. It's something we are willing to pay you for in the form of a discount. That's a phrase that I use a lot. Now, make it your own, but pay you for in the form of a discount. We are establishing this idea that we've got a price that's structured, but we are paying for something. Well, we're giving a concession. We're giving a discount. We're paying for something that we should be getting in return. In this case, commit to more volume, we will pay you for that in the form of a discount. In this case, if they would have accelerated division two into this deal, that would have earned them a 5% discount on the entire pie. They looked at that and thought, all right, that's interesting. Unfortunately, if we try to accelerate that second division into this deal, they're not quite ready yet and it'll slow down the whole thing. First division wants to get going. So, good to know, appreciate it, but let's put an X through that. Like, okay, cool. Let's keep going. We go to the second one, timing of cash. Think I made the joke, like we like money, who knows, who knew, but I explained to them that listen, right now, this is a three-year deal, two and a half million dollars a year, and the payment, the timing of cash, when you pay, at the time was based on upfront annual net 30 billing terms. Meaning they're going to pay at the beginning of each of the three years. Net 30 means 30 days from the time of receipt of invoice. Explain to them that there's tremendous value in our ability to get paid faster. It sounded like this. Your proposal is based on upfront annual net 30 billing terms. As it turns out, because you're making a commitment to a three-year deal, if there's an opportunity for you to accelerate the out years of this agreement, that's valuable to us. It's something we're willing to pay you for in the form of a discount. Hear that phrase again? So, I explained to them that if they pay for year two now, we would pay them in the form of a 5% discount. Pay year two and year three now, we would pay you in the form of 5% plus 5% is a 10% discount for accelerating the out years payment and pay for all three years now. This is an oil services company. This was like 2008. They were flush with cash. I think they had 17, 18 billion dollars of cash on their balance sheet. They looked at each other and they're like, plus I've never heard of that one before. That's interesting. Hey, who do you know in finance that you can go ping and see if they might be willing to do this. And the funny thing was, they started doing it and they're like, hey, put a big star by that one. Ding, ding, ding, let's go. We have an opportunity to pay for all three years upfront and what we're going to pay them for that is 10% discount. We are already halfway through this negotiation. Big negotiation, they've asked for 35% off. We have given them a path to 15% to that 35. They have said no to adding volume. They've said yes to accelerating cash. But the funny thing is this, in that room, it was no longer customer versus vendor. It was a bunch of us sitting across the table, cards face up, collaborating around the four drivers that drive both of our businesses. There was empathy. There was understanding. They want to see us be successful, too. We're giving them the cards to negotiate their own deal. That woman that was negotiating by the door, she was no longer She was like, "Tell us about the next one. Tell us about the next one." Like all excited. Like let's keep going. This was like a fun situation for them, too. So, we kept going. We go to number three. Length of commitment. Now, I explained to them that this deal, their pricing in the proposal is based on a 3-year commitment to our stuff, our products, our technology, our services, the licenses. And their pricing is based on that. But, like before, there is value in extending that length of commitment. The longer the length of commitment, the better it is for us, the more we're willing to pay them in the form of a discount. So, that 3-year commitment, if they were willing to extend that out to 4 years or 5 years, we would pay them 5% for each additional year up to 5 years. I explained to them, take your 3-year out to a 5-year, and we would pay them in the form of a 10% discount to do that. They looked at that and thought, "You know, 3 years is a stretch already. We're in the oil services business, it's unpredictable. That's going to be tough. 5 years is going to be really, really hard, but we get it. We understand. We will check." Let's put a question mark by that. We'll come back to it. Well, we came back to it. Turned out to be an X. They're not able to extend that beyond 3 years. We get to the fourth one. Fourth one's my favorite. I want you to perk up your ears cuz this one is really, really important. And it sounds different than I bet you you're doing today. Timing of the deal. We explained to them that there is tremendous value in our ability to predict our business. We've got investors that having accurate forecasts means they've got more confidence, they make better investments in our organization, which will affect them as a customer. But, at the same time, remember when they signed this deal we need to have a team ready to go implement. Now these resources aren't just sitting around going, "Hey, whenever they sign, we'll be here." Right? That's really, really expensive. Our ability to predict when we will deploy those resources is tremendously valuable to us and if you, Mr. or Mrs. Customers in this room, are willing to help us with that prediction by Here's the word, mutually mutually aligning to when they think they're going to sign and be ready to go, that's something that's tremendously valuable to us and something we were willing to pay them for in the form of a discount. What ended up happening? I explained to them, "Hey, given where we are, I know you said you're in a hurry with this division what's left? Like what does that rest of that process look like?" Well, they kind of looked at each other a little bit confused like they didn't quite know the answer. But they explained that this could take 2 weeks, it could take 6 weeks. They're a big organization. Who knows? I'm like, "All right, I did the math. Mid-July 6 weeks to take us to the end of August, beginning of September. Does that sound about right?" And they're like, "Yeah." I said this. Listen. There's value in our ability to predict this for September from a resource perspective, from an investor perspective. If you are willing to align around that mutually and get this done in September, we are willing to pay you in the form of a 5% discount to do that. They looked up at that and they're like "Sign us up. That's awesome. If we're still talking about this at the end of September, something has gone wrong. Absolutely big star by that." Cuz that was basically the conversation. All right? They had asked for a 35% discount. I immediately took them through the structure by which our business is driven our pricing model is driven and their business is driven and I'm telling you, it's the way your business is driven as well. We walked through a path to get to 30 of the 35%. Funny thing is 35% never even came up again. We left that room as friends having a mutual understanding, cards face up. I'll go Pulp Fiction here style. We'll go to the end. They ended up signing by the end of September wiring us a check for a little over 6 and a half million dollars within 30 days. We had quite the party. We left as friends. They used these four levers for every upsell, every renewal, and when individuals went to other companies, they took that structure with them. Now, gosh, that sounds so easy, doesn't it? There was no anxiety. I felt so great about it. I was like, we got to do this forever. Couple of things happened that we're going to get to here in a second, but at its core, those levers changed the conversation, created a sound basis to our pricing, and gave them confidence that what we had presented to them was the truth. Confidence breeds confidence. Like I said, you now have a structure to where you're not eroding trust, you're not eroding your deal values, and when we played that last one right, our forecast became more accurate, too. >> So, we handled overall price or can I get a discount? So, let's put that one on the board, and then there are a series of other up objections that we need to go through next. >> Now, that sounded so easy, right? Well, it was not quite that easy. A couple of things came up as we went through this process. Number one is we sent them over our agreements, and sure enough, they added something to the language, which you're probably familiar with. If you're not, at some point your career, you're probably going to run up against it. They added a paragraph called termination for convenience. And what termination for convenience means is the customer reserves the right at any time for any reason to get out of the contract. That's not very attractive language for any vendor. As a matter of fact, you got to get it out of there. It hurts your ability to recognize revenue. So, what did we do? Well, we redlined it out, sent it back to them, they put it back in, sent it back. We played that whole cat and mouse game until we got on a call and we had the lawyers on the call to go through all the open items in the contract. What did we do when we came to the termination for convenience language? Remember the three steps to handling any concession? You are going to use those three steps to handle every concession request. Well, again, aren't you curious? Be a human being. Why do they need termination for convenience? Why do they keep putting it in there? That's all we're doing. This is a large oil services company, so they explained that, hey, it's an unpredictable market, we need to have the ultimate flexibility. And then number two is they said, we have it in all of our vendor contracts. Probably isn't true, but okay. Step two, review all four levers. You need to review all four levers over over and over again. Why? Because you're giving them the cards to negotiate all of their own concession requests without you even being in the room. This is not only for your new business, this is for your upsell, cross-sell. This is for your renewals. Your renewal team, if you're on the new business team, they're going to love you if you set that foundation for you. And when you think about long-term deal values, your leadership's going to love you, too, because your deals are going to be more valuable than everybody else's. But, I digress. Let's go back. We've been a human being. Why are you asking for this? Oh, flexibility. Oh, you have it in all your vendor contracts. Now, step three is the walk-through. They have asked, again, for termination for convenience. We go back here and I explain to them that hey, the pricing's based on those four things. A core tenant to the pricing model is length of commitment. Paying you in the form of your pricing based on a three-year commitment. Now, unfortunately, termination for convenience represents no commitment. And so, you can have it, but you're probably not going to like it because the pricing would have to go from a 3-year to what's essentially month-to-month. And I believe, and I'll have the sales rep put together the numbers, that's as much as 30 to 35% more expensive. So, if termination for convenience is something you really want, let's look at it and see whether or not the price equals the value for you. I'm happy to have my rep put together that pricing. And then I explain to them this, that hey, before you freak out, remember you have language in the contract that protects you if the solution doesn't do what we say it'll do. Warranty, termination for cause, or in many cases, you might have something called service level agreements. Again, silence. They're professional negotiators. Got to let them talk next. That's the one psychological element of this. They finally come off of mute and they say this, "Hey, let's take a look at what that pricing would look like with termination for convenience and no commitment. We get it. But while we've got the lawyers on the phone, let's look at the warranty, termination for cause, SLA language and make sure we're comfortable with that." Guess what? Termination for convenience, poof, went away. All right. So, you can think about this one when we talked earlier about hey, we only want to make a 3-month commitment instead of an annual commitment. We want to do a pilot or a proof of concept. Thinking through being a human being, understanding where that request is coming from, walking them through all four levers, and termination for convenience, short-term commitment, a pilot, they're all the same things in the eyes of hey, your pricing is based on an annual commitment, a 2-year, 3-year. If they want to do a short-term commitment, they can, but the pricing would have to be adjusted to make up for it, and they have protections in the contract that protect them if the solution does not do what is expected. >> All right. So, we went through I want a discount, I want termination for convenience. Now I'm going to ask you the dreaded deal slip, which is will you hold the price to next month? Okay, so length of commitment is done. That wasn't everything that happened. Let's go to the timing of the deal. Now remember in our conversations, we had mutually aligned around the timing. We had told them that there's value in our ability to predict. They got excited when we told them we got in September. They said if we're still talking about this at the end of September, something has gone off the rails. Well, guess what happened? September 23rd, my sales rep receives a call as it's going through its final approvals that sounded like this. The sponsor calls him and says, "Hey, we had no idea that this is going to be the case. It's gone through the whole approvals. It got to the CFO's desk. He is the final approver and the signer. Turns out he's on vacation through the end of the month. So, can you just confirm that you can hold the price until October? And I swear, as soon as he comes in, I will be there Monday morning. I will click the mouse on the DocuSign for him. We'll make sure, but can you just confirm that you can hold the price to next month?" What do you do? Three steps on all of these. All right, so step one is be a human being. Take a step back. Like, what do you want to know? But then step two, review all four levers again. Remind them of what we had talked about and what we were paying them for. Hey, as you recall, your pricing is based on how much you buy, how fast you pay, how long you commit, and that mutual alignment around timing. We were paying you in the form of a discount to help us forecast around September. So, here's your answer. This might sound weird, but it's only three words. It's I don't know. Right? I don't know. I don't know if we can hold the price to next month. Let's talk about next month next month. What I do know is if we can still get get done this month, that 5% is there. Remember, uncertainty drives us a little crazy. If you need a reminder of when that happened last, go back to March of 2020 when the world shut down for COVID. We weren't sure where we were going to get our toilet paper from. Everybody started hoarding toilet paper cuz we need certainty in an uncertain time. That's exactly what we're doing here. So, create uncertainty around the ask, create certainty around your alignment and what you were paying them for. So, guess what happened in this instance? Two things. Number one, guess who got the next call? That sponsor called me. Hey, I just talked to the rep. He said he wasn't sure. I thought maybe you know might know the answer. The signer is on vacation through the end of the month. I'll make sure he signs on October 1st, but can you hold the price? Guess what my answer was? Ding ding ding. I don't know. What I do know is if you get it done right now or get it done here in September, we're paying you for that. Let's talk about next month next month. And guess what happened? September 26th, they found somebody else to sign it. We got our signed agreement. And like I said earlier, we got wired this massive amount about 21 days later. But again, going back to the why, and when your customers A, understand what you are paying them for, and B, have skin in the game instead of the fake expiring discount that's basically all selfish for you, now they're getting something of value in return for that, you're going to find that so much more often they align and adhere to that timing, and your forecast is going to become infinitely more accurate, just like it did in this instance. >> All right, so that was I want a discount, I want termination for convenience, will you hold the price? And now let's do one related to billing terms, which is um I want to pay monthly. >> Perfect. So, we have nailed, hey, will you hold the price? So, that one's behind us. Let's talk about those types of requests. Well, this happens all the time, especially even in my business, what I do today. So, I teach, I speak, I do workshops for companies. In my billing, my terms are based on upfront annual net 30 payment terms, right? You pay the whole amount net 30 from time of invoice. Now, as I'm working with some large companies, oftentimes they'll come to me and say, "Hey, um our standard billing terms are net 60. So, we need to update the invoice to reflect that." What do you do? Now, let's talk about what Armand asked me, which was monthly billing terms. So, you're asking for upfront annual net 30, and they say, "Hey, we want to pay monthly." It's the exact same thing. What drives that? Be a human being, take them through all four levers, and walk them through it. Now, this had happened to me in one of my roles a number of years ago, where my rep had run up against a customer that wanted monthly billing, and was angry about the fact that we were asking them to pay annually. To the point where the rep said, "Hey, Todd, can you take this call? She's pretty upset." I get on the phone with her, and she starts yelling at us saying that I am out of touch with the marketing industry, and that every company in the space bills monthly, and here we come along. I believe she said, "And la-di-da, here comes you with annual billing." Right? The be human kind of went in the toilet. That was going to be hard, but I walked her through all four levers. Like, "Hey, I understand. You're right. The other vendors do charge monthly. We base our pricing on these four things. How much you buy, how fast you pay, how long you commit, and that mutual alignment around timing. Your pricing is based on annual. If you want monthly, you can, but something needs to be adjusted to walk through it. Let's walk through those together, and see if we can get you there." She completely disarmed. We had a collaborative conversation, and guess what? They decided and determined that it's actually easier for them to pay one bill every year instead of chasing down multiple POs and invoices every year, they were happy about the annual. Remember, so often customers are asking for things because they've been told to ask for it or it's the way they've always done something, for you to walk through a structure with confidence and a sound basis, you'd be surprised how easy it is to make those things not only go away, but to build their confidence in the integrity of your pricing model. >> All right. So, lastly, we went through I want a discount, I want term for convenience, will you hold the price, can we pay monthly, and lastly, a brutal one that has actually happened to me semi recently, which is can I start with half of the organization instead of the full organization? >> Exactly. So, we have nailed the I want to pay a little bit slower. Let's go on to that last one, which is volume. I'll take you into a story that it happened to me a few years ago. I had a sales rep that was working on a significant deal with a customer, and if the deal came in at its full volume, he was going to President's Club, and it was contingent on them signing the next day based on our mutual alignment around timing. Here's what happened. The sponsor of the deal was running it through, getting all of the approvals and signatures. The last signer, the CFO. CFO had not been privy to any of the conversations throughout this entire process. Brand new to this. We got word from the sponsor that the CFO had it on his desk and wanted to talk to us. So, they had reached out to the rep. The rep called me and said, "Todd, please be on this call." And to give you a little bit of a background, what this customer was buying was 36,000 licenses. They had agents in the field. We were going to be arming them with our technology. So, it was based on a 36,000 user commitment. We get on the phone with him and he starts in saying that he is reviewing the contract and wants to start by having that 36,000 commitment, meaning we want to start by committing to 18,000 users instead of 36,000, and then we'll add the additional 18,000 later. Now, I look down at my DMs, and my rep is freaking out, right? The President's Club is on the line. We got to make sure that we've got this, but we ended up walking through it. Step one was be a human being. He asked, "Instead of 36,000 users, wanted to start with 18,000. Why? What was driving that determination? We have been working with the team. We've scoped this thing out. Why now? Why half?" And he explained that 36,000 is a lot to roll out at one time, and they want to feel comfortable that this is working before they make that entire commitment. So, they want to start with 18, and then they'll add the additional 18,000 later. Step two, review all four levers. Step three, walk through. So, if you do want to have that 36,000 user commitment, you can, but that changes your price. Price is based on 36,000, and you've earned a tier discount based on that. If you want to cut that in half, you can, but the price per user goes up quite a bit. And then when you go to add the additional 18,000, your overall investment is going to be quite a bit bigger. I can have the rep write up what that pricing looks like. But before you freak out, remember that you have protections in the contract in case this doesn't work out. We've got warranties, we've got termination for cause, we've got service level agreements that protect you in case this doesn't work out the way you think, but your pricing is based on 36,000. So, I then stopped talking. Phone went silent. This is a professional negotiator. It felt like it was an hour of him not talking. It was probably like 10 seconds, but he then pipes in, "Yes, I would like to take a look at that pricing. Show me what it looks like, the 18 plus the 18, and I'll take a look." I think he may have just hung up. I don't remember him saying thanks or I'll get back to you. He just click. And so my sales rep freaks out. But we put together that pricing showing what 18 + 18 looks like versus making the 36,000 that's in the contract that he's about to sign. Sent it over to him. Guess what happened? Next morning, we received a contract signed for the full 36,000 users. So, the point there being always go back to those. All right? In this case the expectation was, "Hey, if I just cut down my commitment in half, it's still going to cost the same. I just get to spread it out." Sure. He's trying to lower his risk. But your pricing is based on these four things. That main one there being volume. Commit to more, better. Commit to less, not as good. That needs to be reflected and communicated clearly. >> So folks, those are all five objections. I want to discount term for convenience, will you hold the price, can we pay monthly, and can we start with half the team? And guess what? Todd is actually the most generous negotiator of all time because for free we have broken down your top five pricing objection talk tracks that you can use in any of your sales cycles. If you want the exact scripts of what you say in each of these scenarios, go check it out down below. It's completely free. And if you like this, you will certainly love what's inside of his course. >> Check out the course where in it I'm not only going to take you through this in excruciating detail, but we're going to teach you how to tee it up so that the event of the negotiation becomes a lot easier in the way that [music] you position and the way that you propose your pricing. We're then going to take you through a number of additional iterations of the things that you obviously run into all the time in your negotiations to not only build trust to the goal line instead of eroding it. You're going to discount less. You're going to speed your close. And in the end everybody in your organization is going to love you because your forecast going to become more accurate, too. That's a wrap, folks. We'll see you on the next one.
