# The Top 5 Sales Scripts To Handle ANY Pricing Objection

Channel: 30MPC (30 Minutes to President's Club)
Video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=AtO39nkL0Io
Upload date: 2026-06-16

---

Let me just get this straight. So, you're telling me that every single customer in this situation gets no more than a 15% discount. >> Yes. >> Really? >> Yes. >> How do you [laughter] close business? >> This is Todd Capone. He's negotiated over $100 million in deals as a top [music] rep and chief revenue officer. And he's also written the top-selling books on B2B negotiation in existence. [music] And today I am putting him to the test in a live negotiation roleplay. I'm going to be a grueling prospect and throw every single pricing objection I can think at him from massive discounts to payment terms to shorter commitments to even the end of quarter deal slip. And by the end you will know how to handle literally any B2B negotiation scenario that you run into. And Todd claims that he can do this without eroding any trust or hiding anything in his negotiation. And if you want to go deeper on this, Todd built an entire course on B2B negotiations in partner with us called Four Levels Negotiating. The link's down below. Todd, welcome to the show. >> Good to see you. >> All right, so what's the tale of the tape? >> Okay, in this scenario I'm playing an account executive, so I'm the one doing the selling. I'm having a conversation with a chief marketing officer of a large retailer called Banana Republic. You may have heard of them. And we are now going to have the initial conversation where we are talking through the pricing model. >> And we give 40% discounts all the time, so I figured you would give a 40% discount. >> I bought this sweater on a 40% discount. This is a Banana Republic sweater that I'm wearing right now. >> over clothing here, okay? So, you got to give me the >> the same. >> Exactly. >> Okay, so before we dig into the roleplay, a couple of things that just to keep in mind. In this circumstance, we're talking about a CMO that is likely helicoptering into this conversation. Meaning there's been or there should be conversations that have happened before with other individuals around what the pricing model is and we've probably already introduced the four levers to them. Now, in this case we've got a CMO that's helicoptering in. I'm having the initial conversation with them just like I would do in a proposal, which is laying out the first three of the four levers. And then as the conversation goes on is when I get firm about that fourth lever because again, this is a goal-line conversation. This is a conversation where they're asking for things and there is an opportunity to mutually align around the timing. >> All right, folks. So, let's jump into the first pricing conversation. At the end of each key riff, we're going to pause and break it down. 3 2 1, let's roll. >> All right. So, Armond, great having this conversation with you. Appreciate the alignment around the recommendation. Let's talk about the price and the pricing model. So, as we've talked about with the rest of your team, the price is really primarily driven by four things. The first one is volume. So, your price is based on a CPM, cost per mille. You're familiar with that term. It's cost per thousand emails sent. So, this is email marketing software. So, you are making a commitment to a certain number of sends over the next 12 months and your price is based on that. And you've earned tier discounts based on that volume commitment. The other levers are number two is your price is based on the timing of payment or timing of cash. The payment terms in this contract are upfront annual net 30 payment terms. And it is also reliant on a length of commitment commitment. In this instance, this is based on a minimum of a one-year commitment. The fourth lever we will talk about here in a minute, but it is in alignment around timing or the timing of the deal as there's value in our ability to predict, but we can talk about that in a little bit, but at its core, your price is based on the volume primarily and that is a CPM based on your volume commitment over the next 12 months. >> Got it. Okay, cool. Um so, what is the price? >> Okay, so based on your anticipated send of 3 million emails per year, you have earned a tier discount which takes you to a CPM of $20 per thousand or CPM, which takes you to a total of $600,000 per year. >> Holy cow. Okay. Um that is that is very expensive. That is a lot more than I thought it was going to be. Okay. >> More than you were expecting. Okay. Um tell me about that. What kind of level were you anticipating for a solution like this? >> Yeah. Um with our with our existing provider, we've been there with them for a while, and so we're down in like the 10 to 15 CPM range, and so we've been grandfathered in, and this is literally like almost doubling the investment, and I I think you guys are great, but I don't I don't I don't know if it's double the value. >> Okay. So, he has asked for a discount without actually asking by indicating that the price is almost 2x not only what he was anticipating, but their current vendor. Now, couple of things. Here's why this is probably unlikely to be a real reaction. We have set a expectation all through this process. This is a client that is looking to upgrade their solution from what they're currently using to a more premium solution. We have already set that basis. So, what Arman's likely doing here is trying to just be a jerk and see what he can get, see if he can fluster the deal, see if that he can get a discount in a massive way by just acting like he is willing to walk away right away based on the fact that he feels that our pricing is ridiculous. >> Yeah, so one of the things in Todd's four levers pricing framework is the fact that early on in the sales cycle, he has laid that talk track out with every single person involved in the sales cycle. So, as the deal goes up, every single person who gets added to the deal already knows this pricing, and so at this point, I'm kind of just trying to blow the deal up and see if I can strong-arm him into giving me a discount, which honestly, usually as a buyer in the past, I have been able to do that when I was VP of sales. So, let's jump back in knowing that anyways. >> Yeah, so I might have a conversation with the CMO at this point about a willingness to walk away. All right? Confidence is contagious. If you are a startup and you don't have any clients, then this could be a valid thing that he's asking for, that maybe where you're trying to value your solution is not what the market will bear. But, we're a company that's got 10,000 clients, right? And they're paying the market rate for this. So, given we've already had the human conversation, I might address it this way. So, he has told me that we are probably 2x what he's currently paying. All right? So, Armando, I understand you're right. Like, we are a premium solution, which is part of where all the excitement from the rest of your team's been coming from through this, is your organization's been looking for an opportunity to inject a premium solution since marketing is such a core element of how you drive your revenue. So, if there is a concern about the price, we can talk through that together. As I mentioned, our price is based on four things. If you'd like, we can have a conversation and walk through it and see if we can get to a little closer to where you need to be. >> Yeah, I mean, I at Banana Republic, we give our customers discounts all the time. And so, normally, I'll be honest, normally, I am able to get at least a 40% discount out of these conversations. And so, that's my expectation is like, look, you you and I were both in the world of uh SaaS purchasing or whatnot. And I know that nine times out of 10, the price is not the price. So, let's let's talk through what you have. >> Okay, cool. So, what we've done with our pricing model is create a structure that establishes a consistency, because we'd hate for you to be paying more than one of our other customers. Right? So, we're trying to create a consistency within the confines of hey, you're investing more than another client, so you should be getting a better CPM, which is how the pricing is structured. So, let's walk through these together. The volume component, I think what you guys have estimated is right on. And so, if you want to make a larger commitment, you can, and that would earn you a lower CPM, but I don't think that's appropriate given the circumstance. >> Yeah, I don't see us sending more emails than that. I mean, we could and we're not sending less emails for the sake of fitting into a software. So, I think the volume is the volume. Um I think just the overall CPM needs to come down. >> Okay. All right. Well, the way we can do that is to look at these other three levers then. So, the second one is the timing of cash. Now, the way that we've structured this agreement is an upfront annual net 30 payment. Not really a whole lot we can do there. So, let's move on to the third one, which might be the opportunity. You've been working with your current provider for a number of years, and we anticipate that we're going to have a great relationship, and this is going to go swimmingly. And given that, if there's an opportunity for us to make a longer commitment, that's something we would pay you for in the form of a discount. So, the price is based on a 1-year commitment. If there's an opportunity to take that out to a second year or even a third year, we would pay you in the form of a 5% discount per additional year up to 3 years. So, if you take that 1-year, make it a 3-year, we can lower that CPM by 10%. >> Yeah, so we've done a 3-year deal before, but usually that has included a termination for convenience clause or some sort of pilot period where we can make sure that it actually works for the first 6 months because I can't commit to 36 months of software for something that demoed great, but I still don't know if it's actually going to work. I'm willing to explore longer term commitment, but not unless I can have something that de-risks this for me, so that I know it doesn't break in the first 6 months. >> Absolutely. All right, cool. Out of character for a second. Let's put a little context on that one. A lot of times people will ask for a concession and they will give no context to it all. He's done a really, really good job of explaining, "Hey, I'll make a longer commitment, but I'm worried about the risk. What if this doesn't work?" We have termination for convenience in contracts like that. I can go right into the re-explanation. Okay? So, it sounds like this. So, totally understand that and I align with it. You know, making a long-term commitment can be risky, certainly. However, the way that the pricing is structured, as we talked about, it's based on those four things. How much you buy, how fast you pay, how long you commit, and that mutual alignment around timing. Termination for convenience or doing pilots, that actually represents no commitment. And so, if you want to go down that path, you can. I'm not sure you're going to like it, because it would actually change the pricing model and reduce the commitment that you're making, which would be reflected in the pricing. But, before you freak out, remember, you've got protections in the contract if the technology does not do as promised. As a matter of fact, there's a clause here around warranty, which again, we have stated what the outcomes should be, and if they do not align, you've got an opportunity to get out of the contract there. There's also termination for cause. So, if there's certain things that happen during the agreement period that conflicts with anticipated environment, anticipated relationship, you've got the opportunity to get out there. And we actually have service level agreements in the agreement, too, which talks about uptime. So, again, you're protected in multiple ways if the technology does not do what's anticipated Under the assumption that it will do what's anticipated, your price is based on a commitment. So, you can have those things, but you're probably not going to like it, but you're protected anyway. >> Yeah, I just know that there's the there's the in theory in a demo environment we can support an enterprise customer, and then there's the reality of what happens when I get a CSM who has no idea what's going on, and then next thing you know, the product breaks when I do too much email volume, and it's not as customizable as it was made out to be and all that stuff. I don't think that stuff would be covering covered in like the standard warranties and stuff like that. It's It's so it's hard to commit to a 3-year deal knowing that. >> Right, so I can send over what that pricing would look like with a termination for convenience clause, with a pilot period as well. I We're We're happy to do that. I I think, you know, during the conversations with the rest of your team, we've gotten them to a level of comfort, which has actually led to us having this conversation. So, we're happy to explore those things if that would help. I will tell you this. Um when we think about creating a great outcome for you, our goal always is to create outcomes that you never even thought possible. And I know that sounds cheesy, but where I'm getting at here is we take our best resources and put them on our most committed customers. And so, in a circumstance like this, it's part of the reason we don't do the pilots is that we don't want to take our best resources and put it on our least committed customers. So, maybe it warrants having another conversation with the team just to get you to another level of confidence that the solution is actually what it says it's going to do. And I would recommend having a conversation with the lawyers, and make sure that they feel comfortable that in the circumstance you just explained, that the language around warranty, termination for cause, and service level agreements aligns to the things that you're concerned about. >> So, to break character quickly, Todd, you probably see what I'm doing right now, but I'm a CMO of Banana Republic here. At this point in the sales cycle, my team has run multiple tests, they've probably done a custom config on the environment, they've gone through all of the testing around the technicalities and all that stuff, and they've probably already shared that stuff with us and with me. >> Exactly. >> I am kind of just trying to bull rush in this negotiation, and this happens a lot. And I'm just trying to use an overall claim of enterprise unreliability, which is a real thing, but if Todd has run a good sales cycle, he doesn't need to engage with me in that confrontation. He just needs to direct me back to "Hey, the reason we're here in the first place is because the decision was probably already made with your team, and they already wanted to move forward with us, which probably included a reasonable assessment of risk in the sales cycle." >> Exactly. And I'll add one other thing that I hear a lot that you got to be careful of is that kind of conversation leads most sales people to go, "Hey, let's get you some more references to talk to." And all of a sudden, now you've slowed down your close. What you're doing here is telling the client, "Hey, you're protected legally. You've got a team that has already done all of this homework that hopefully you have confidence in." And remember, the technology or whatever it is that you're selling, if you've got clients that are doing this in you know, with a level of success, it should be pretty easy for that CMO to be able to do a little bit of homework on their own versus trying to punch you into creating an environment where there's all of these termination provisions that do not allow you to recognize any revenue. >> All right, Todd. So, send send me the the proposal for what it would look like to do a 3-year deal. I think that gives me 10% off, so if it's 600k, that's that gets us down to 540, but the reality is like I need this to be closer to like 400k. So, let's let's keep going through the other stuff you had. You said timing of the deal matters for you. So, does that get me closer to my number? >> Well, yeah. So, let's think about this for a second. So, the way that your pricing is structured and here are the cards, right? That you either can commit to more volume, um you can pay us faster, which really doesn't provide much of an opportunity here. There's long longer commitment, which we've laid out. So, the pricing originally was based on a one-year. What we're doing is we're paying you in the form of a discount for a longer commitment. So, that's the additional two years. And then the last one is the timing of the deal. So, before we go there, can I just take a step back for a second? The the timing of cash that we talked about in the first one, there's an opportunity there if you really look at it. That if you're willing to actually accelerate out your payment, turns out we like money, who knew? And the faster you're willing to pay us, so we've talked about upfront annual net 30 payment terms, but if you want to pay us for year two and/or year three upfront, we would pay you in the form of a 5% discount for each additional year that you accelerate. So, you make the three-year commitment, pay us for all three years, and now we've got you down 20% instead of just 10%. >> Are there people that pay 1.8 million dollars all upfront? >> It doesn't happen very often, but there are certain circumstances where companies love that idea of just getting that off of the books. In many cases, they're when they sign the contract, they're allocating the budget. If they've got a five-year budget, the dollars are already allocated. So, it happens, but I'm just giving you the option so that you understand how the pricing is structured. >> I think my CFO would slap me in the face if I asked him to pay 1.8 million dollars upfront. >> You know, it's worth a conversation. I know that sounds crazy, but we have had customers that have accelerated that. And again, tremendously valuable for an organization like us. And so, we want to be able to share in the value of that. We'd pay you in the form of a discount to do it. Again, you can say no, it's cool. And that's up to you. Have that conversation. >> Our shirts are $20, so I I predict we will have a cash flow issue if we did that, but I I can ask. >> All right, perfect. And then let's talk about that fourth one again. So, timing of the deal, we haven't really talked much about this one before, but as you can imagine, and your business probably experiences this as well, there's tremendous value in a business like ours in being able to predict. We've got investors that we set expectations with, so an accurate forecast really valuable. But then a solution like this, it requires resources that we're going to have to allocate and make sure that we're ready to roll. Our ability to predict when those resources are going to be needed is really, really valuable for both of us. But if you're willing to align around the timing of when you think, assuming we come to an agreement on the commercial terms here, if you're willing to align with me around how much time's left and when you think you'd be willing to execute this and get started, that's tremendously valuable to us and something we would be willing to pay you for in the form of a 5% discount. So, with that in mind, 5% discount, assuming we can come to some kind of agreement around the commercial terms here, let's walk through this a little bit. Like, what's your anticipated timeline around when you would like to get started? >> Yeah, so right now it's May. And the reality is we have to do a wind down in a process with our existing provider that takes a couple of months, um but we would probably run them in parallel a little bit. Because you're going to have customer data, the legal and IT review's going to be extensive. At a company the size of Banana Republic, I would expect that to take at least 6 weeks at a minimum, and that would be quick. >> Okay. >> And so, you're looking at best case, end of June if today's early May. >> Okay, cool. Perfect. Well, happy to lay that out for you, too. I know from your current provider to moving to us, you know, there's steps that we've been working with your team on to just help anticipate what that rollout's going to look like. That timing actually it sounds right on. Um you know, based on that, there's value in our ability to predict our business, like I said, and something we're willing to pay you for in the form of a discount. Assuming that we kind of go a little bit longer and a little bit of a buffer, there's value in our ability to predict this for July. So, you're saying end of June, this gives us an extra few weeks in case things slow down, in case this conversation takes longer. Um if you're willing to align with us around getting this thing done by the end of July, that's something we'd be willing to pay you for in the form of a 5% discount, as well. >> Yeah, so doing this in July would would be totally fine. So, I could get this down. So, now we've gone from 600, I got my 10% discount for committing for longer years if my team signs off on that. And then I've got the 5% discount for signing by July. So, that gets me down to a 15% discount total. So, we've gone from 600 to 510, which is still a lot more than what I'm paying right now. So, how do I get this closer to four in this case? >> Well, again, what we've done here is we've provided you the way to do that. Um I mean, maybe we have to start a little smaller. Our pricing is based on those four components. Uh based on how many email sends you expect to send, your pricing is based on that CPM, which is aligned to that amount. Upfront annual payments, have a conversation with your CFO about that. You might be surprised about the accelerating of the out year payments. The longer commitment and the mutual alignment around timing. And so, that's where we are. >> Let's actually go back to the timing timing of the cash piece. You said this is upfront annual. We're talking about a $600,000 agreement. I should be asking for net 90 quarterly as the starting point, which would be pretty standard for a a massive contract like this. >> Okay. So, is that something that you've done in the past? >> The the vast majority of our contracts are between net 60 and net 90 of this size. And then typically we are getting quarterly payments and the fastest we tend to pay is semi-annual. >> Okay. All right. Well, as we talked about, the pricing is based on those four components. How much you buy, how fast you pay, how long you commit, and then that mutual alignment around timing. Our pricing is based on net 30 payment terms. If you want to adjust that, you can, but we would need to adjust something else. That's not going to actually help you get any closer to your goal of getting this down this dollar amount down into the 400s, but um we can talk through these different elements. >> Let me just get this straight. So, in in the world of SaaS, 20% discount is where things usually start. >> Mhm. >> I am at a 15% discount and in return what I have done is I have now committed for 3 years and told you I'm going to sign by July and I'm paying upfront annual on top of that. You're telling me that every single customer in this situation gets no more than a 15% discount. >> Yes. >> Really? >> Yes. >> How do you close business? >> [laughter] >> Well, yeah. I mean, I I know gosh, it sounds hilarious, but um literally yes, we've built our business around creating a structure that allows us to be an ongoing concern and I'm assuming you would like to see us continue to be able to invest and to enhance the solutions and have that kind of a relationship with our customers. So, yeah. We've established a model where we've created a consistent amount. We have priced this not in order to see how much we can get out of you. We have priced it for the market. So, yes, you are paying exactly the same amount as every other client of ours that would be making a similar investment and getting the a similar solution. >> So, what you're telling me is this deal was up in the air between you and SurveyMonkey and we wanted to move forward with you all. If I went to SurveyMonkey and it was a close evaluation and they were willing to offer me the price at 360K, you would not come down $1. >> I we would come down based on the levers and what our pricing is structured around. >> all the 3 years up front, >> Exactly. Well, yes, if you wanted to get down to that level, absolutely. And if you feel comfortable that the price-value equation isn't working out, then I wish you the best of luck. I mean, go. SurveyMonkey is obviously a strong organization. They've they're around for a reason. They've got a pretty extensive customer list for a reason. So, I I would hate to see you go, but if it economically is not equating for you, I get it. >> Okay, so I know these are the rules that the sales team abides by. Uh there have been and I've seen this inside of our org, there are exceptions to the rules. I know we would be a marquee logo for you all as well. Um my request would be that we escalate this up to the CFO level because they are usually the ones who can make the exception here and I I respect that you are holding true to the commercial terms that you have latitude to pull on, but nine times out of 10, if I get in front of a senior financial buyer, they are able to make things work because of the size of customer we are. >> I understand that. Absolutely. We have you know, it's 2026. Um we have recognized very quickly that how much customers are paying. It's talked about. AI is exposing pricing models at this point. So, we have intentionally created a structure where we are giving you a price that every customer is paying, but giving you the flexibility within those for the things that we're willing to pay you for in the form of discount. And those again are make larger commitments, pay us faster, commit longer, help us forecast. So, you have the cards for the conversation with the CFO, and I'm happy to participate in that conversation whenever you're ready. >> Yeah. So, Tom, my request would be that you you discuss this internally and then we can come back and and have a discussion, but this this pricing is just I don't see us being in a position to move forward at this level. This this seems pretty out of out of out of the realm of possibility for where for where we are. >> I respect that. >> All right, pause. So, break down what's happening. >> Yeah, I mean, we've got a a customer who is misaligned around what the pricing expectation is going to be. And we've done our best here to lay out the levers to give them the tools to negotiate their own deal, to build confidence that our prices are priced. We have not gotten scared. If I lose this deal because it's a customer that is going to pay considerably less than every other one of our customers in a similar circumstance, that's bad for our business. That multiplies by every year they renew, by every upsell, by every single person the CMO talks to at the next e-tail retail conference. This multiplies over and over again. For the strength of your organization, for the strength of your wallet, we've got to hold firm around building confidence around the four levers, giving them the tools to negotiate their own deal. And this individual, Armand in this case, has gotten to the point where he's feeling some frustration because I'm not giving in. And in normal circumstances, guess what happens? They realize there's no more to be had, and now they've got a decision to make. Is this too expensive based on all the time that we spent and the objectives we were trying to achieve, they've got to come up with that answer on their own. It's not up to us to buy it. >> What I'm trying to do to Todd here is clearly I'm running up against stonewall after stonewall after stonewall. So, all I can try to do is get Todd to sweat a little bit in this scenario and get him to think about his forecast and the fact that this is a critical deal and a critical logo and maybe even internally this is on the radar of the CFO. And that's what I'm trying to do to show him that I'm willing to walk because as a prospect there is no cost to me walking. He's not going to tell me you're not allowed to have the deal anymore after I walk off this call. And so, I'm going to look like I'm walking. And so, that's what I've done. Funny enough, in the back of my head this actually reminded me of a CFO did this to me. His name was Ed. We jumped on seven calls in five days because every single time the call ended like that. He's like, "Nope, I got to think about it. You need to sharpen your pencil. Come back." And I came back and literally just said the exact same thing to him every single time. And by the end in the final one I was like, "Dude, the contract expires today. You got to sign this thing." And he signed. Because there is no cost to me posturing and walking away from Todd. >> Yeah, and there's part of the conversation that I had was reminding him that hey, it's no longer sustainable to have pricing that one customer's paying less than others and almost a reminder that that CMO is probably going to the retail conferences, the retail conferences. There's CMOs out there that are using our solution that Armand could actually probably call and go, "Hey, here's what I'm hearing from him. What are you guys hearing?" And if the answer is exactly the same, guess what happens? Your deal gets closed. The there's tremendous value in your willingness to walk away and that's not a gimmick. That's not a trick. You know, save your tricks for your junior high kids magic shows, right? This is you're creating a sound basis for all of your pricing, which impacts all of your deals. It impacts your wallet, your quota attainment, and it impacts the reputation of your entire organization's pricing structure. So, that confidence breeds confidence in your customers. They can sense it, and they know there's no more to be had. I'm telling you in this role play scenario, that CMO is likely going to go back and figure out how to pay the amount that we talked about. Otherwise, he's going to have a mutiny on his hands from the rest of the organization that is really excited to move forward with us. >> That was what I wrote down at the beginning is my full intention is, "Look, you're already vendor of choice at this point in the process. The reality is there's no way on a 150 K discount for this size of company that I am willing to change my vendor of choice at this point for like this importance of a purchase. And that is what you have to remember is at this point in the negotiation, usually the decision has already been made as long as you are not egregiously off on price. >> Exactly. >> So, folks, if you like this, Todd walks through literally everything you need to do in a negotiation that helps you close your deals faster because you end the negotiation earlier. It helps you close bigger deals like in this one where he didn't just give away the 40% discount that I was asking for, and also does it in a way where I can get as mad as I want, but at no point was he hiding or lying or anything like that and eroding trust. Nine times out of 10, we've actually rolled this out at 30MPC, and it has made our negotiations so much better. His course, Four Levels Negotiating, is now available. Go check it out down in the show notes. It is the best B2B negotiation course you'll find in the game. And Todd is actually giving you a gift for free, even if you don't pick up the course, which is we have five negotiation talk tracks that will literally help you handle any pricing objection you can get from discounts to shorter terms to pilots to termination for convenience down below in the show notes. And if you like that and you like this, you will love his course Four Levels Negotiating. Go check it out down below in the show notes.
